181st CONGRESS
1ST SESSION
S. J. RES. 3
To affirm the commitment of the United States to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
(NATO) in light of the actions of President James Sun.
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
S 12th, 2024
EPTEMBER
Ms. LICKINGTON of PACIFICA (for herself) introduced the following joint resolution;
A JOINT RESOLUTION
To affirm the commitment of the United States to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
(NATO) in light of the actions of President James Sun.
Whereas, On the twenty-first day of August 2024, President James Sun released a
proclamation that was intended to recognize World War One Lieutenant-Colonel John
McCrae. In this proclamation, the President included a sudden and unilateral order that
ordered the recall of all American troops deployed in missions outside of NATO territories.
Whereas, This executive action on the part of President Sun sparked a significant backlash
among America’s closest strategic allies and weakened the alliance as a whole. Which only
weakens American strength amongst some of the most critical alliances that the United
States has.
Whereas, Despite the subsequent reversal of the policy in Executive Order 303 by Vice
President Richard Holland while he was acting as President, the damage to our
relationships with partners in NATO was widespread.
Whereas, The North Atlantic Treaty Organization is vital for regional stability in Europe,
the Middle East, and Northern Africa and ensures that the conditions for another global
war do not emerge again in Europe.
Resolved by the Senate of the United States (the House of Representatives concurring, The
United States of America strongly affirms its commitment to the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization and all member-states within the organization thereof.
1

Resolved by the Senate of the United States (the House of Representatives concurring), The
United States reaffirms its commitment to Article five of the NATO Charter and will strive to
continue its commitment to cooperation with all member-states.
Resolved by the Senate of the United States (the House of Representatives concurring), The
proclamation signed by President James Sun on the twenty-first day of August 2024 does not
reflect a change in United States policy towards NATO or our allies.
2