IN THE CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES
JULY 6TH, 2021
Mr. LIGHTWOOD-TOWARD (for himself, Mr. HARRIS on
behalf of the BERRY ADMINISTRATION) introduced the
following bill;
A BILL
To strengthen and empower the United States Department of Education with respect
to emergency school aid.
Be it enacted by the Senate and the House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress Assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the “Aiding Students and Staff in Supplementary Terms Act of
2021, or the ASSIST Act of 2021”
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress finds that—
(a) Over 90 percent of public school funding comes from state and local sources, such
as fees, sales taxes, income taxes, and property taxes;
(b) In their authority, states have different tax rates for income and sales tax, if any
apply;
(c) Cities take in different amounts of property taxes due to differing calculations to
appropriately levy taxes;
(d) Property values fluctuate city to city, and oftentimes throughout a city, and;

(e) School districts are chronically underfunded across the country, with certain
districts no longer being able to afford to maintain facilities, programs, or
materials necessary to their operation.
SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act—
(a) SCHOOL DISTRICT.— The term “school district” refers to an entity that is
responsible for the operation and maintenance of public schools in a prescribed
geographic area in the United States.
(b) SCHOOL BOARD.— The term “school board” refers to an entity that is
responsible for the oversight and direction of a school district.
(c) EDUCATIONAL MATERIALS.— The term “educational materials” refers to, but
is not limited to: educational books, pamphlets, posters, dry erase boards and
associated materials, interactive boards and associated materials, tactile learning
materials, videos, and teaching aids used to support an educator during the course
of instruction.
(d) APPLICANT.— The term “applicant” refers to an individual affiliated with and
authorized by a school district to apply for grant funds from the federal
government for the purposes of procuring supplies, personnel, facility
improvements, or educational materials to promote a better learning environment.
(e) DEPARTMENT.— The term “department” refers to the United States Department
of Education, unless otherwise noted.
(f) SECRETARY.— The term “secretary” refers to the secretary of the department
(typically the United States Department of Education), unless otherwise noted.
SEC. 4. AMENDING UNITED STATES CODE.
(a) IN GENERAL.— United States Code, Title 20, shall be amended according to the
provisions in this section to allow the Secretary of Education to establish grant
programs to provide financial assistance to school districts in need of aid,
compared to nearby districts.
(b) GRANT PROGRAMS.— To assist school districts in need of financial aid to create
an education of equivalent quality as compared to its counterparts, the following
amendments are made to strengthen the Department—

(1) CHAPTER 34: EMERGENCY SCHOOL AID (§ 1601 et seq.) shall have the
following language inserted to supersede the repealed language, starting
with § 1601, and numbering the following paragraphs as individual sections
below accordingly—
(A)The purpose of this chapter is to:
i) Grant the Secretary of the Department of Education the
authority to set the stage for grant programs.
ii) Assist public school districts in their quest to close the gap in
areas where they find themselves lacking
iii) Financially assist individuals looking to obtain higher
education.
(B)No grant program formed under this subchapter shall usurp funds
from the Department of the Treasury. All grant programs created
under this subchapter shall be considered a request to Congress for
funding.
(C)The Secretary of the Department shall be empowered to—
i) Issue a secretarial order to establish a grant program for public
schools, pending appropriations from Congress.
ii) Transmit a copy of the order along with copies of letters from
school boards petitioning for aid, if any, to the Secretary of the
Treasury, Speaker of the House, the President pro tempore of
the Senate, and the Majority and Minority Leaders of the
respective chambers.
(D)The Department may begin accepting applications for the established
program, but shall not disburse funds until appropriations are
received. The Department must notify all applicants that the grant
program is provisional and is contingent on appropriations from
Congress, and provide a date in which a response must be given on
the status of the funding.
i) If no funding is received within 30 days, the grant program
shall be considered insolvent and must terminate, with all
applicants being notified that funding was not appropriated to
disburse the grants.

(E)The Secretary of the Department shall be empowered to—
i) Issue a secretarial order to establish a grant program for
students pursuing higher education, pending appropriations
from Congress.
ii) Transmit a copy of the order to the Secretary of the Treasury,
Speaker of the House, the President pro tempore of the Senate,
and the Majority and Minority Leaders of the respective
chambers.
(F)The Department is prohibited from applying grants for higher
education to a student’s federal financial aid package.
i) If no funding is received within 30 days, the grant program
shall be considered insolvent and terminate.
SEC. 5. SEVERABILITY.
(a) IN GENERAL.— If any provision of this Act or amendment made by this Act, or
the application of a provision or amendment to any person or circumstance, is held
to be unconstitutional, the remainder of this Act and amendments made by this
Act, and the application of the provisions and amendment to any person or
circumstance, shall not be affected by the holding.
SEC. 6. ENACTMENT.
(a) EFFECTIVE DATE.— The provisions of this Act shall come into force immediately
upon passage.