IN THE CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES
MARCH 8, 2020
Sponsor:
Congressman James of Georgia (D)
Cosponsors:
Congressman Pete of Alabama (D)
Majority Whip Bean of Illinois (R)
Mr. Chief of Staff McKenna of California (D)
Congressman Bo of Florida (D)
Deputy Majority Whip Lukas of Florida (R)
———————————————————————
——
AN ACT
To guarantee paid bereavement leave to all
employees working in the United States.
ABSTRACT
Currently the federal government does not require
businesses to provide any paid bereavement leave
to their employees. Under the Family and Medical
Leave Act of 1993, eligible employees are

guaranteed twelve weeks of unpaid, job-protected
leave per twelve month period for family related
matters. However, there are many workers in the
United States who can not afford to miss any paid
workdays. People should not have to worry about
missing bill payments, missing rent, or suffering any
financial hardships while mourning the loss of a
loved one. With this Act, we, the Congress of the
United States of America, will guarantee paid
bereavement leave to all Americans.
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the “Bereavement Leave
Act”
SECTION 2. DEFINITIONS
The following definitions will apply throughout the
Act:
(a) An immediate family member is defined as a
parent, stepparent, grandparent, sibling, step
sibling, child, grandchild, great-grandchild or
spouse.

(b) An extended family member is defined as an
aunt, uncle, great aunt, great uncle, first or
second cousin, niece, nephew, great niece or
great nephew.
SECTION 3. QUALIFICATIONS
All employed Americans, both part-time and
full-time, quality for the paid bereavement
guaranteed by the following section.
SECTION 4. PAID BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
Mandated paid bereavement leave will be provided
as followed:
(a) For the loss of an immediate family member
all employees are to be granted five (5) days of
paid bereavement leave.
(b) For the loss of an extended family member all
employees are to be granted three (3) days of
paid bereavement leave
SECTION 5. ENACTMENT
The law shall go into effect immediately upon
passage.