- 1 -
174th
CONGRESS
S.2
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
FEBRUARY 14, 2024
Introduced by Mr. Pluribus, for themself, Mr. Harris-Charest, and Ms. Moctezuma,
Mr. Twos, Mr. Pickle Hersey, Mr. Morales
A BILL
To amend the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy
Act of 1977 to authorize capacity building grants for community college
agriculture and natural resources programs.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. Short Title
(a) This Act may be cited as the Community College Agriculture & Natural
Resource Act of 2024
SEC. 2. CAPACITY BUILDING GRANTS FOR COMMUNITY COLLEGE
AGRICULTURE AND NATURAL RESOURCES PROGRAMS
Subtitle K of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7
U.S.C. 3310 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:
“SEC. 1473I. CAPACITY BUILDING GRANTS FOR COMMUNITY COLLEGE
AGRICULTURE AND NATURAL RESOURCES PROGRAMS.

- 2 -
“(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
“(1) ELIGIBLE ENTITY.—The term ‘eligible entity’ means—
“(A) a junior or community college supporting agriculture advancement; and
“(B) a consortium or alliance of 2-year public colleges supporting agriculture
advancement.
“(2) JUNIOR OR COMMUNITY COLLEGE.—The term ‘junior or community
college’ has the meaning given in section 312 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20
U.S.C. 1058).
“(b) COMPETITIVE GRANTS.—The Secretary shall make competitive grants to eligible
entities to assist the eligible entities in maintaining and expanding the capacity of the
eligible entities to conduct workforce training, education, research, and outreach activities
relating to—
“(1) agriculture; and
“(2) other similar disciplines.
“(c) PRIORITY.—In making grants under subsection (b), the Secretary shall give priority
to an eligible entity coordinating with a local agriculture industry operator to provide
experiential training and other opportunities for students.
“(d) USE OF FUNDS.—An eligible entity that receives a grant under subsection (b) may
use the funds made available through the grant to expand and maintain the capacity of the
eligible entity—
“(1) to successfully compete for funds from Federal grants and other sources to
carry out educational, research, and outreach activities that address priority concerns of
national, regional, State, and local interest;

- 3 -
“(2) to offer educational programming on agricultural industry jobs, including
farm business management-related subjects, such as accounting, paralegal studies, and
finance;
“(3) to disseminate information relating to the priority concerns described in
paragraph (1) to interested members of the agriculture and other relevant communities
and to the public;
“(4) to encourage members of those communities to participate in priority
education, research, and outreach activities through providing matching funding from
sources other than funds received through the grant; and
“(5) through—
“(A) the purchase or other acquisition of equipment and other infrastructure
(not including the alteration, repair, renovation, or construction of buildings);
“(B) the professional growth and development of faculty; and
“(C) the development of apprenticeships and other work-based learning
opportunities.
“(e) CENTERS OF AGRICULTURE ADVANCEMENT.—
“(1) IN GENERAL.—An eligible entity may submit to the Secretary an
application for designation and funding as a center of excellence for agriculture
advancement.
“(2) USE OF FUNDS.—A center of excellence for agriculture advancement
designated under paragraph (1) shall use funding received as a result of that
designation—
“(A) to demonstrate best practices relating to agriculture; and

- 4 -
“(B) to provide leadership in capacity building at a regional or national level.
“(f) EVALUATION AND REPORT.—Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this
section, the Secretary shall—
“(1) conduct an evaluation of activities carried out under this section; and
“(2) submit a report describing the evaluation conducted under paragraph (1) to—
“(A) the Committee on General Legislation of the House of Representatives;
“(D) the Committee on General Welfare of the Senate.
“(g) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—There is authorized to be appropriated to
carry out this section $25,000,000 for each of the fiscal months February 2024 through
February 2025.”.