IN THE UNITED STATES SENATE
December 2nd, 2022
Mr. Twos (for himself) introduced the following bill;
A BILL
To ensure the United States of America’s commitments on climate change are met.
Be it enacted by the Senate and the House of Representatives of the United States of America in
Congress Assembled,
SEC. 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the “Commitment on Protecting our Climate Act”, or the “COPOC Act”, or
“S.6”.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress finds that—
(a) The United States has stalled on climate change throughout the 21st century.
(b) While the American people overwhelmingly support action against climate change, the 79th
President of the United States withdrew from the Paris Climate Agreement.
(c) Congress is meant to represent the will of the people, and the will of the people is in favour of
environmental legislation.

(d) A committee on the climate crisis, the most serious issue of our time, is therefore necessary in
the public interest.
SEC. 3. ESTABLISHING A JOINT COMMITTEE ON THE CLIMATE CRISIS
(a) The Joint Committee on the Climate Crisis shall be established for the purpose of:
(i) Recommending to Congress actions that should be taken on climate change;
(ii) Investigating the current effectiveness of climate policies of the United States.
(b) The Committee will be composed of:
(i) 2 Senators from the Senate Majority Caucus, appointed by the Senate Majority Leader;
(ii) 2 Senators from the Senate Minority Caucus, appointed by the Senate Minority Leader;
(iii) 3 Representatives from the House Majority Caucus, appointed by the House Majority
Leader;
(iv) 2 Representatives from the House Minority Caucus, appointed by the House Minority
Leader.
(v) Any vacancy shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment.
(c) This Committee will be active:
(i) Throughout the remainder of the 160th Congress, or;
(ii) Unless extended or dissolved by appropriate legislation.
(d) Rule 36 (5) and (6) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives shall apply to the
Joint Committee.
(e) Rule 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives shall apply to the Joint
Committee.
SEC. 4. DEPARTMENT AUDITS FOR SUSTAINABILITY
(a) PRESIDENT - The President shall–
(i) Immediately direct and authorise the Secretary of the Environment, the Secretary of
Development, and the Secretary of Commerce and Labor to ensure commitment to net
zero by 2040;
(ii) Within 120 days of the signature of this legislation, release a plan for the United States
to achieve net zero by 2040.
(iii) Within 120 days of the signature of this legislation, ensure a plan for the United States
to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases by 2030 is released.
(b) SECRETARY OF THE ENVIRONMENT - The Sec. of the Environment shall, within 120 days
of the signature of this legislation–
(i) Develop a program that:
(1) Puts the United States on a path to net zero by 2040;
(2) Allows for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030;
(3) Makes an impact on the pathway to 1.5 degrees C;
(4) Ensures investment to other countries to help them achieve net zero.

(c) SECRETARY OF DEVELOPMENT - The Sec. of Development shall, within 12 days of the
signature of this legislation–
(i) Review the sustainability of housing and develop a program that:
(1) Allows for the widespread reduction of domestic carbon emissions;
(2) Ensures low-income, middle-income and high-income households can reduce
their emissions regardless of wealth, potentially through grants.
(ii) Review the public transport system and develop a program that:
(1) Allows for the improvement of public transport infrastructure;
(2) Reduces the cost of public transport;
(3) Increases accessibility of public transport;
(4) Reduces dependency on cars as a method of transport.
(d) SECRETARY OF COMMERCE AND LABOR– The Sec. of Commerce and Labor shall,
within 120 days of the signature of this legislation–
(i) Develop a program that:
(1) Supports small businesses in their transition to net zero;
(2) Balances the need for economic growth with the need for protecting our
environment.
SEC. 5. ENACTMENT.
EFFECTIVE DATE.— The provisions of this Act shall come into force immediately after passage.
BILL AUTHOR’S NOTES:
1. Republicans are red
2. Democrats are blue
3. The earth is burning down
4. And we’ll all be fucked soon