150THCONGRESS
1STSESSION
H.R. 1
To amend Title 19 of the United States Code and to provide for
congressional disapproval of certain acts
——————————————————
IN THE CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES
FEBRUARY 13th, 2022
Mr. LIGHTWOOD, Mr. RICCA (for themselves, Ms.
FALCONE, Mr. BOLTON) introduced the following
bill;
——————————————————
A BILL
To amend Title 19 of the United States Code and to provide for
congressional disapproval of certain acts
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in
Congress Assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the “Congressional Tariff Elimination Act”.
SECTION 2. FINDINGS AND CONGRESSIONAL DISAPPROVAL OF
CERTAIN ACTIONS.
In this bill, this Congress finds—

(a) The economic stability of the United States of America to have been put into
jeopardy be a series of inconsiderate policy decisions in the past years, which
have ultimately led to a deep status of crisis;
(b) The policy pursued by the Wazowski administration, since its inception,
towards the People’s Republic of China, towards Taiwan and its foreign policy
in general to have been detrimental to the fostering of global peace and
international cooperation;
(c) The policy pursued by the Wazowski administration with regards to the
People’s Republic of China, namely the commencement of a trade war of
unseen before proportions, to have been not only detrimental to the fostering
of global peace and international cooperation, but inconsiderate and hurtful
for the American people, who stand to have to bear the weight of the
nefarious results of the tariffs imposed by the Administration and of the
inevitable retaliations that will follow from the People’s Republic of China;
(d) The current economic situation of the United States to be further cause for
condemnation of the President’s initiatives, which will inevitably deepen the
already devastating crisis impacting the American people.
Therefore, this Congress Resolves that:
(a) The recent foreign policy decisions taken by the Wazowski Administration,
namely the unilateral recognition of Taiwan and the imposition of severe
tariffs on chinese steel imports, as well as the President’s general aggressive
posturing towards the international peers of the United States are to be
condemned
(b) Said decisions, and the Administration’s decision to commence a trade war
with the People’s Republic of China are to be further condemned for their
damaging impact on the already suffering American economy.
SEC. 3. AMENDMENTS TO PROVISIONS REGARDING TARIFFS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 232(f) of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962 (19 U.S.C.
1862(f)) is amended—
(i) in paragraph (1), by striking “of petroleum, or petroleum products”;
(ii) in paragraph (2)(B), by striking “petroleum imports” and inserting
“imports”;
(iii) in paragraph (2)(B), by striking “petroleum or petroleum products”.

(iv) by striking subparagraph (c) in its entirety.
(b) APPLICABILITY.—
(a) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in subparagraph (B), subsection (f)
of section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962 (19 U.S.C. 1862), as
amended by paragraph (1), shall apply to adjustments of imports
under that section on or after January 1, 2018.
SEC. 4. SEVERABILITY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—If any one or more section, subsection, sentence, clause,
phrase, word, provision or application of this Act shall for any person or
circumstance be held to be illegal, invalid, unenforceable, and/or
unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the validity of any other
section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, word, provision or application of
this Act which is operable without the offending section, subsection, sentence,
clause, phrase, word, provision or application shall remain effective
notwithstanding such illegal, invalid, unenforceable, and/or unconstitutional
section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, word, provision or application,
and every section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, word, provision or
application of this Act are declared severable. The legislature hereby declares
that it would have passed each part, and each provision, section, subsection,
sentence, clause, phrase or word thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one
or more section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, word, provision or
application be declared illegal, invalid, unenforceable, and/or
unconstitutional. In the interpretation of the present Act or of any of its
provisions or clauses, Congress asks the courts to adopt, in any cases, the
reasonable interpretation closest to the general intent and purpose of the
present Act which shall be deemed constitutional, and in its ruling mandate
the enactment of the interpretation in such manner determined, before
relying to severing any part of the present Act.
SEC. 5. ENACTMENT.
EFFECTIVE DATE.—This Act shall go into effect immediately upon passage.