140TH CONGRESS
1STSESSION
H.R. 18
⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
April 21, 2021
Mr. Pluribus (for himself, Mr. Diaz, Mr. Harris, Mr. Sullivan, ) introduced the
following bill, which was subsequently referred to the House of
Representatives.
⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯
A BILL
Toprohibittheawardingof acontract or grantinexcessof thesimplified acquisition
thresholdunlessthe prospectivecontractor orgrantee certifiesin writing totheagency
awardingthecontract orgrant that thecontractoror granteehas noseriously
delinquenttax debts, andfor otherpurposes.
Beit enactedbythe Senateandthe House ofRepresentativesof theUnited Statesin
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1.TITLE.
This Actmaybe citedas the“Contracting andTaxAccountability Actof 2021”
SECTION 2.Governmental policy

It is the policy of the United States Government that no Government contracts or
grants should be awarded to individuals or companies with seriously delinquent
Federal taxdebts
SECTION 3.Prohibitionon awarding ofcontracts todelinquent Federaldebtors
Section 3720Bof title31,United StatesCode,is amended—
(1) In thesectionheading, byadding atthe end“or contracts”;
(2) Byaddingat theendthe following:
“(c)
(1)Unless this subsection is waived by the head of a Federal agency, a person who has
a seriously delinquent tax debt shall be proposed for debarment from any contract
awarded by the Federal Government.
(2)The head of any Federal agency that issues an invitation for bids or a request for
proposals for a contract in an amount greater than the simplified acquisition
threshold (as defined in 41 U.S.C. 134) shall require each person that submits a
bid or proposal to submit with the bid or proposal a form—
(A)certifying that the person does not have a seriously delinquent tax debt; and
(B)authorizing the Secretary of the Treasury to disclose to the head of the agency
information limited to describing whether the person has a seriously delinquent tax
debt.

(3)The Secretary shall make available to all Federal agencies a standard form for the
certification and authorization described in paragraph (2).
(4)Not later than 270 days after the date of enactment of this subsection, the Federal
Acquisition Regulation shall be revised to incorporate the requirements of this
subsection.
(5)For purposes of this subsection:
(A)The term contract means a binding agreement entered into by a Federal agency
for the purpose of obtaining property or services, but does not include—
(i)a contract designated by the head of the agency as assisting the agency in the
performance of disaster relief authorities; or
(ii)a contract designated by the head of the agency as necessary to the national
security of the United States.
(B)
(i)The term “person” includes—
(I)an individual;
(II)a partnership; and
(III)a corporation.
(ii)A partnership shall be treated as a person with a seriously delinquent tax debt if
such partnership has a partner who—

(I)holds an ownership interest of 50 percent or more in that partnership; and
(II)who has a seriously delinquent tax debt.
(iii)A corporation shall be treated as a person with a seriously delinquent tax debt
if such corporation has an officer or a shareholder who—
(I)holds 50 percent or more, or a controlling interest that is less than 50 percent,
of the outstanding shares of corporate stock in that corporation; and
(II)who has a seriously delinquent tax debt.
(C)
(i)The term seriously delinquent tax debt means an outstanding debt under the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 for which a notice of lien has been filed in public
records pursuant to section 6323 of such Code.
(ii)Such term does not include—
(I)a debt that is being paid in a timely manner pursuant to an agreement under
section 6159 or section 7122 of such Code; and
(II)a debt with respect to which a collection due process hearing under section
6330 of such Code, or relief under subsection (a), (b), or (f) of section 6015 of such
Code, is requested or pending.”
SECTION 4.Prohibition on awarding of grants to delinquent Federal debtors
(a)In general.—
The head of any Executive agency that offers a grant in excess of an amount equal to
the simplified acquisition threshold (as defined in 41 U.S.C. 134) may not award

such grant to any person unless such person submits with the application for such
grant a form—
(1)certifying that the person does not have a seriously delinquent tax debt; and
(2)authorizing the Secretary of the Treasury to disclose to the head of the Executive
agency information limited to describing whether the person has a seriously
delinquent tax debt.
(b)Release of information.—
The Secretary shall make available to all Executive agencies a standard form for the
certification and authorization described in subsection (a)(2).
(c)Revision of regulations.—
Not later than 270 days after the date of the enactment of this section, the Director of the
Office of Management and Budget shall revise such regulations as necessary to
incorporate the requirements of this section.
(d)Definitions and special rules.—
For purposes of this section:
(1)Person.—
(A)In general.—
The term “person” includes—
(i)an individual;

(ii)a partnership; and
(iii)a corporation.
(B)Treatment of certain partnerships.—
A partnership shall be treated as a person with a seriously delinquent tax debt if such
partnership has a partner who—
(i)holds an ownership interest of 50 percent or more in that partnership; and
(ii)who has a seriously delinquent tax debt.
(C)Treatment of certain corporations.—
A corporation shall be treated as a person with a seriously delinquent tax debt if such
corporation has an officer or a shareholder who—
(i)holds 50 percent or more, or a controlling interest that is less than 50 percent, of
the outstanding shares of corporate stock in that corporation; and
(ii)who has a seriously delinquent tax debt.
(2)Executive agency
The term executive agency has the meaning given such term in 41 U.S.C. 133.
(3)Seriously delinquent tax debt.
(A)In general.—

The term seriously delinquent tax debt means an outstanding debt under the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 for which a notice of lien has been filed in public records pursuant
to section 6323 of such Code.
(B)Exceptions.—
Such term does not include—
(i)a debt that is being paid in a timely manner pursuant to an agreement under section
6159 or section 7122 of such Code; and
(ii)a debt with respect to which a collection due process hearing under section 6330 of
such Code, or relief under subsection (a), (b), or (f) of section 6015 of such Code,
is requested or pending.
SECTION 5.ENACTMENT.
EFFECTIVE DATE.—The provisionsof thisAct shallapplybeginning May1st,
2021
(Creditto FormerRepresentative forIndiana’s 8thCongressionalDistrict, Brad
Ellsworth)