H.R. 3
IN THE 142nd CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES
June 21, 2021
Representative Purdy (forhimself,RepresentativeCage,
RepresentativeCreamSoda,SenatorMiller,)introducedthefollowing;
An Act
To prohibit discrimination against an individual on the basis of natural hair color.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
Section 1. Short Title.
This Act may be cited as the “Creating a Respectful and Open World for Natural Hair
Act” or the “CROWN Act.”
Sec. 2. Findings.
(a) One’s hair has served as a basis of race and nationality discrimination.
(b) Racial and nationality discrimination occur due to longstanding racial and
rationality biases and stereotypes regarding hair texture and style.
(c) For example, as recently as 2018, the United States Armed Forces had grooming
policies that barred natural or protective hairstyles that servicewomen of African
descent commonly wear and that described these hairstyles as “unkempt”.
(d) In 2018, the United States Armed Forces rescinded these policies and recognized
that this description perpetuated derogatory racial stereotypes.
Sec. 3. Definitions.
(a) The term “program and activity” has the same meaning given under section 606 of
the Civil Rights Act of 1964; and
(b) The term “discriminatory housing practice” has the same meaning given under
section 802 of the Fair Housing Act; and

(c) The term “person” has the same meaning given under section 701 of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964.
Sec. 4. Federal Programs.
(a) No individual shall be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or
be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity that receives Federal
funding based upon the individual’s hairstyle, hair texture, or natural hair color.
(b) Enforcement —
(i) Subsection (a) shall be enforced in the same manner and by the same
means, including with the same jurisdiction, as if such subsection was
incorporated in title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and as if a violation
of subsection (a) was treated as if it was a violation of section 601 of such
Act.
Sec. 5. Public Accommodations.
(a) No individual shall be subjected to a discriminatory housing practice based upon
the individual’s hairstyle, hair texture, or natural hair color.
(b) No individual shall be subjected to a practice prohibited under section 201, 202, or
203 of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 based upon the individual’s hairstyle, hair
texture, or natural hair color
(c) It shall be an unlawful employment practice for an employer, employment agency,
labor organization, or joint labor-management committee controlling
apprenticeship or other training or retraining (including on-the-job training
programs) to fail or refuse to hire or to discharge any individual, or otherwise to
discriminate against an individual, based on the individual’s hairstyle, hair
texture, or natural hair color.
(d) No person in the United States shall be subjected to a practice prohibited under
section 1977 of the Revised Statutes, based on the individual’s hairstyle, hair
texture, or natural hair color.
(e) Enforcement —
(i) Subsection (a) shall be enforced in the same manner and via the same
means, including within the same jurisdiction, as if such subsection was
incorporated in the Fair Housing Act, and as if a violation of subsection (a)
was treated as if it was a discriminatory housing practice.

(ii) Subsection (b) shall be enforced in the same manner and via the same
means, including within the same jurisdiction, as if such subsection was
incorporated in the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and as if a violation of
subsection (b) was treated as if it was a violation of section 201, 202, or 203,
as appropriate, of such Act.
(iii) Subsection (c) shall be enforced in the same manner and by the same
means, including with the same jurisdiction, as if such subsection was
incorporated in title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and as if a violation
of subsection (c) shall be treated as if it was a violation of section 703 or 704,
as appropriate, of such Act.
(iv) Subsection (d) shall be enforced in the same manner and by the same
means, including with the same jurisdiction, as if such subsection was
incorporated in section 1977 of the Revised Statutes, and as if a violation of
subsection (d) was treated as if it was a violation of that section 1977.
Sec. 6. Enactment.
(a) This act shall go into effect in 60 days upon passage.