IN THE CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES
MARCH 11th, 2022
Mr. MORALES (for himself) introduced the following bill;
To improve the cybersecurity of the Federal Government and to prepare for future cyberattacks.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress assembled,
Sec. 1. SHORT TITLE.
This act may be cited as the “Cybersecurity and Defense Act of 2022.”
Sec. 2. FINDINGS
Congress finds that—
(a) In November 2020, During the Elections, An attempted cyberattack in Madison,
Wisconsin tried to interfere with the election by disrupting the power. During the same
month, hackers cause a blackout by attacking the power grid and making the city of
Madison go dark
(b) On March 10, 2022, The United States was hit with a massive cyberattack that targeted
businesses and the United States Seventh Fleet.

Sec. 3. DEFINITIONS
In this act—
(a) The term “United States Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency” is a federal
agency under the Department of Homeland Security oversight.
(b) The term “Ransomware” is a form of malware designed to encrypt files on a device,
rendering any files and the systems that rely on them unusable.
Sec. 4. ACTIVE CYBER DEFENSIVE STUDY
(a) After the enactment of this act, the Director of Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security
Agency shall perform a study on the use go active defense techniques to enhance the
security of agencies, which shall include–
(1) A review of legal restrictions on the use of different active cyber defense
techniques in Federal environments, in consultation with the Department of
Justice
(2) The development of a framework for the use of different active defense
techniques by agencies.
Sec. 5. RANSOMWARE THREAT
(a) Joint Ransomware Task Force.—
(1) IN GENERAL.— After the enactment of this act, The Attorney General and the
Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation shall establish and chair the Joint
Ransomware Task Force to coordinate an ongoing nationwide campaign against
ransomware attacks and identify and pursue opportunities for international
cooperation.
(2) COMPOSITION.— The Joint Ransomware Task Force shall consist of
participants from Federal agencies, as determined appropriate by the Secretary of
Homeland Security.

(3) RESPONSIBILITIES.— The Joint Ransomware Task Force, utilizing only
existing authorities of each participating Federal agency, shall coordinate across
the Federal Government by the following activities:
(A) Prioritization of intelligence-driven operations to disrupt specific
ransomware actors.
(B) Consult with the relevant private sector, State, local, tribal, and territorial
governments, and international stakeholders to identify needs and
establish mechanisms for providing input into the Joint Ransomware Task
Force.
(C) Disrupting ransomware, criminal actors, associated infrastructure, and
their finances.
(D) Facilitating coordination and collaboration between Federal entities and
relevant entities, including the private sector, to improve Federal actions
against ransomware threats.
(E) Collection, sharing, and analysis of ransomware trends to inform Federal
actions.
Sec. 6. CODIFYING VULNERABILITY DISCLOSURE PROGRAMS
(a) Purpose
(1) PURPOSE.— The purpose of Federal vulnerability disclosure programs is to
create a mechanism to use the expertise of the public to provide a service to
Federal agencies by identifying information system vulnerabilities.
Sec. 7. MOBILE SECURITY STANDARDS
(a) IN GENERAL. After the enactment of this act, the Director shall–
(1) Evaluate mobile application security guidance by the Director; and
(2) Issue guidance to secure mobile devices, including for mobile applications for
every agency.
Sec. 8. ENACTMENT
The provisions of this statute shall go into effect immediately upon the signature of the President.