177TH CONGRESS
H.R.12
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
May 22, 2024
Introduced by Mr. Nord of Pacifica, for himself.
A BILL
To invest in the creation of desalination facilities across America powered by
renewable energies to ensure access to clean and affordable drinking water.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the “Desalination Investment Act of 2024”.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS
For the purposes of this act,
(a) “Desalination Facility” (hereinafter referred to as “DF”s ) refers to any
facility in which salt is removed from salt water in order to make the water
suitable for drinking and irrigation.
(b) “The Secretary” shall refer to the United States Secretary of Energy.
(c) “The Department” shall refer to the United States Secretary of Energy.
SEC 3. RELEVANT PROVISIONS
The Secretary is hereby authorized to —

(1) enter into agreements or contracts with any Federal, State, or local
agency or private organizations on behalf of the Department, for the
purpose of furthering the development, research and construction of
DFs within the state of Pacifica.
(i) including but not limited to agreements with agencies where
desalination is already part of their jurisdiction, or agencies
with desalination, development, and research as their focus.
(2) award grants not exceeding $5,000,000 each to such federal, state,
or local agencies, or research institutions, to further the development,
research, or construction of DFs within the state of Pacifica.
(3) maintain communication with those agencies and institutions to
avoid duplication of efforts, including and necessitating but not limited
to bi-annual updates on research efforts and development; and that the
Secretary shall review all updates before authorizing renewals for the
grants provided for in Section 3(2).
(4) promote the use of renewable energy to power or to assist in
powering such DFs.
SEC 4. COORDINATION WITH OTHER DEPARTMENTS
It is in the sense of congress that the Secretary should –
(1) coordinate and discuss with the Department of Energy to ensure
that such DFs do not produce significant burden or strain on energy
grids.
(2) coordinate and discuss with the Environmental Protection Agency
to ensure that such DFs do not negatively harm local environments,
habitats, and ecosystems.
SEC. 5. SEVERABILITY
Should any portion of this Act be deemed invalid or unconstitutional for any
reason in a court with relevant jurisdiction, the rest of the Act, and the
application of the remaining provisions, shall not be affected.
SEC 6. APPROPRIATIONS
(a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—There is authorized to be appropriated
$15,000,000 for the fiscal year 2024 for the Department to carry out this Act;

$40,000,000 for fiscal years 2025 to 2028; and such sums as may be necessary
for fiscal years thereafter.
SEC. 7. EFFECTIVE DATE.
This Act shall take effect on the date that is 6 months after the date of
enactment of this Act.