143rdCONGRESS
1STSESSION
S.3
Requiring Satellite Owners to be Responsible for what is put into
Outer space.
⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯
IN THE UNITED STATES SENATE
J 12th, 2021
ULY
Mr. F , (for himself, Mr. N , Mr. X , Mr.
RANCIS ORMAN ANDER
R ) introduced the following bill to the Senate;
OSS
⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯
A BILL
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America Assembled.
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE
(a) SHORT TITLE — This Act may be cited as the “Donald Kessler Act”.
SECTION 2. SEVERABILITY
(a) SEVERABILITY — Should any provision of this Act be deemed invalid or
unconstitutional for any reason in a court with relevant jurisdiction, the
rest of the Act, and the application of the remaining provisions, shall not
be affected.
SECTION 3. DEFINITIONS
(a) For the purposes of this act the following shall mean as defined —
(i) SATELLITE — Any man-made object orbiting Earth.

Page 2
(ii) KESSLER SYNDROME — The idea that humanity shall have created so
many man-made satellites, collisions shall happen often in orbit.
(iii) ORBIT — The path of an object around any celestial body.
(iv) GRAVEYARD ORBIT — An orbit of a defunct satellite away from
operational satellites.
(v) NASA — The National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
(vi) DEFUNCT— Any satellite that is non-operational or not in use.
(vii) USE — A satellite being actively communicated with on Earth or being
used for scientific purposes.
(viii) CORPORATION — The term 'corporation' shall be defined as it is in 15
U.S. Code §44
SECTION 4. FINDINGS
(a) CONGRESS finds that —
(i) An alarming amount of objects over 10 centimeters in diameter orbit
the Earth.
(ii) Micro-Collisions could potentially be a large issue in the future for the
operation of humans in Low-Earth-Orbit.
(iii) As more objects are sent into Low-Earth-Orbit by private corporations,
space debris becomes a larger concern.
(iv) With Moon Colonization and manned Mars Missions becoming a thing
within the next decade, humans will be polluting other worlds with
Space Debris.
SECTION 5. PROVISIONS
(a) IN GENERAL — Any persons or corporations who possess ownership
over a Satellite shall be considered responsible for the following,
(i) Ensuring their satellites do not collide with other satellites.
(ii) Ensuring their satellites remain in a safe orbit to where they will
not interfere with any goings of a manned mission.
(iii) Ensuring satellites that are no longer in use to be removed from
Low-Earth-Orbit by one of the following
(1) Removal from Low-Earth-Orbit via de-orbiting into the
atmosphere.
(2) Removal from Low-Earth-Orbit into a Graveyard or Junk
Orbit.
(iv) Ensuring that satellites have a means of removing themself from
Low-Earth Orbit

Page 3
(v) All satellites launched before May 15th, 2021 shall be exempt
from the provisions of this act.
(vi) Any satellite that has some failure that disallows them from
leaving Low-Earth-Orbit shall be exempt from this act.
(vii) Corporations or persons are disallowed to purposely make parts
fail that would disallow satellites from leaving Low-Earth Orbit.
(viii) A National Aeronautics and Space Administration owned website,
‘satellite.gov’ shall be created for the purpose of satellite owners
to register their satellite.
(ix) Any individual or corporation that launches a satellite after May
31st 2021 shall be required to register their satellite on
“satellite.gov”.
(x) ‘satellite.gov’ shall require users to give the following in order to
register:
(1) Their full name,
(2) Satellite’s Name,
(3) Rocket Corporation used to launch their Satellite,
(4) The following forms of contact: telephone number, mailing
address, and birth certificate/driver's license/ any
identification that can be proven as yourself.
(5) Satellite’s estimated/intended Apogee and Perigee,
(6) Date of rocket launch.
SECTION 6. PROVISIONS RELATED TO CONSEQUENCE
(a) Failure to register with ‘satellite.gov’ within 90 days of launch shall
result in a civil penalty of no more than $1,000.
(b) Failure to comply with removing a satellite from Low-Earth-Orbit shall
result in a civil penalty of no more than $100,000 and/or a prison
sentence of 6 months to one year.
(c) Purposely building a satellite for parts to fail in order to not remove it
from Low-Earth-Orbit shall result in
(i) Being charged with a Class-A Misdemeanor.
(ii) A civil penalty no more than $100,000 is optional as it is a
Class-A Misdemeanor.
(iii) Failure to pay civil penalty shall result in 6 months to 1 year in
federal prison.
SECTION 7. FUNDING
(a) IN GENERAL —

Page 4
(i) The National Aeronautics and Space Administration shall be
appropriated $200,000 in order to build and host ‘satellite.gov’.
(ii) The Department of Justice shall have the option to reappropriate
up to $1,000,000 yearly to carry out the provisions of this act that
exclude any provisions of the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration’s responsibilities.
SECTION 8. ENACTMENT
(a) ENACTMENT — The provisions of this Act shall come into full force
immediately after signage.