165TH CONGRESS
2ND SESSION
S. 9
To amend title 10, United States Code, to establish a Department of
Defense program to carry out stormwater management projects on
or related to military installations to improve the resilience of
military installations and defense access roads and protect
waterways and stormwater-stressed ecosystems.
MR. HARRIS-CHAREST (for himself, on behalf of the LEMAIRE Administration)
introduced the following bill.
AN ACT
To amend title 10, United States Code, to establish a Department of Defense program to
carry out stormwater management projects on or related to military installations to
improve the resilience of military installations and defense access roads and protect
waterways and stormwater-stressed ecosystems.
Be it enacted by the Senate and the House of Representatives of the United States of America
in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the “Enhancing Military Base Resilience And Conserving
Ecosystems through Stormwater Management Act of 2023”, or the “EMBRACE
Stormwater Management Act”.

2
SEC 2. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
PROJECTS FOR MILITARY INSTALLATIONS AND DEFENSE
ACCESS ROADS.
Title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after section 2815 the
following:
“SECTION 2815a – Stormwater management projects for installation and
defense access road resilience and waterway and ecosystems conservation
“(a) PROJECTS AUTHORIZED.—The Secretary concerned may carry
out a stormwater management project on or related to a military installation
for the purpose of—
“(1) improving military installation resilience or the resilience
of a defense access road or other essential civilian infrastructure
supporting the military installation; and
“(2) protecting nearby waterways and stormwater-stressed
ecosystems.
“(b) PROJECT METHODS AND FUNDING SOURCES.—A
stormwater management project may be carried out under this section as, or
as part of, any of the following:
“(1) An authorized military construction project.
‘‘(2) An unspecified minor military construction project under
section 2805 of this title, including using appropriations available for
operation and maintenance subject to the limitation in subsection (c)
of such section.
‘‘(3) A military installation resilience project under section 2815
of this title, including the use of appropriations available for
operations and maintenance subject to the limitation of subsection
(e)(3) of such section.
‘‘(4) A defense community infrastructure resilience project
under section 2391(d) of this title.

3
‘‘(5) A construction project under section 2914 of this title.
‘‘(6) A reserve component facility project under section 18233 of
this title.
‘‘(7) A defense access road project under section 210 of title 23.
“(c) PROJECT PRIORITIES.—In selecting stormwater management
projects to be carried out under this section, the Secretary concerned shall
give a priority to project proposals involving the retrofitting of buildings and
grounds on a military installation or retrofitting a defense access road to
reduce stormwater runoff.
“(d) PROJECT ACTIVITIES.—Activities carried out as part of a
stormwater management project under this section may include, but are not
limited to, the following:
“(1) The installation, expansion, or refurbishment of
stormwater ponds and other water-slowing and retention measures.
‘‘(2) The installation of permeable pavement in lieu of, or to
replace existing, nonpermeable pavement.
‘‘(3) The use of planters, tree boxes, cisterns, and rain gardens
to reduce stormwater runoff.
“(e) PROJECT COORDINATION.—In the case of a stormwater
management project carried out under this section on or related to a military
installation and any project related to the same installation carried out under
section 2391(d), 2815, or 2914 of this title, the Secretary concerned shall
ensure coordination between the projects regarding the water access,
management, conservation, security, and resilience aspects of the projects.
“(f) ANNUAL REPORT.—
“(1) Not later than 90 days after the end of each fiscal year,
each Secretary concerned shall submit to the congressional defense
committees a report describing—
“(A) the status of planned and active stormwater
management projects carried out by that Secretary under this
section; and

4
“(B) all projects completed by the Secretary concerned
during the previous fiscal year.
“(2) Each report shall include the following information with
respect to each stormwater management project described in the
report:
‘‘(A) The title, location, a brief description of the scope of
work, the original project cost estimate, and the current
working cost estimate.
‘‘(B) The rationale for how the project will—
‘‘(i) improve military installation resilience or the
resilience of a defense access road or other essential
civilian infrastructure supporting a military
installation; and
‘‘(ii) protect waterways and stormwater-stressed
ecosystems.
‘‘(C) Such other information as the Secretary concerned
considers appropriate.
“(g) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) The term ‘defense access road’ means a road certified to the
Secretary of Transportation as important to the national defense
under the provisions of section 210 of title 23.
‘‘(2) The terms ‘facility’ and ‘State’ have the meanings given
those terms in section 18232 of this title.
‘‘(3) The term ‘military installation’ includes a facility of a
reserve component owned by a State rather than the United States.
‘‘(4) The term ‘military installation resilience’ has the meaning
given that term in section 101(e)(8) of this title.
‘‘(5) The term ‘Secretary concerned’ means—

5
‘‘(A) the Secretary of a military depart- ment with
respect to military installations under the jurisdiction of that
Secretary; and
‘‘(B) the Secretary of Defense with respect to matters
concerning the Defense Agencies and facilities of a reserve
component owned by a State rather than the United States.’’.
SEC 3. SUPREMACY.
For the purposes of enacting this Act, any laws in conflict with this Act shall be
immediately rescinded and rendered null and void.
SEC 5. SEVERABILITY.
If any provision of this Act, or any amendment made by this Act, or the application
of such provision to any person, entity, government, or circumstance, is held to be
unconstitutional, the remainder of this Act, or any amendment made thereby, or the
application of such provision to all other persons, entities, governments, or
circumstances, shall not be affected thereby.
SEC 6. EFFECTIVE DATE.
This act shall come into force immediately upon approval within the process
described by Article I, §7 of the Constitution of the United States.

6
META NOTES:
This act was originally known as H.R. 5262 of the 117th Congress, introduced by
Representative Bobby Scott of Virginia’s Third District. The act was incorporated into the
NDAA for Fiscal Year 2022, and had three Democratic and two Republican cosponsors.