S. 10
ToamendtheImmigrationandNationalityActtoeliminatethepercountrynumericallimitationfor
employment-basedimmigrants,to increasetheper-countrynumericallimitationfor
family-sponsoredimmigrants
_____________________________________
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
October 27, 2022
Be it enacted by the House of Representatives and Senate of the United States of
America in Congress assembled —
Mr. BROWN (For himself,) introduced the following,
A BILL
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
(a) This Act may be cited as the “Equal Access to Green cards for Legal Employment Act
of 2022” or the “EAGLE Act of 2022”.
SEC. 2. NUMERICAL LIMITATION TO ANY SINGLE FOREIGN STATE.
(a) In general.—Section 202(a)(2) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
1152(a)(2)) is amended to read as follows:
“(2) PER COUNTRY LEVELS FOR FAMILY-SPONSORED
IMMIGRANTS.—Subject to paragraphs (3) and (4), the total number of
immigrant visas made available to natives of any single foreign state or
dependent area under section 203(a) in any fiscal year may not exceed 15
percent (in the case of a single foreign state) or 2 percent (in the case of a
dependent area) of the total number of such visas made available under such
section in that fiscal year.”.

(b) Conforming amendments.—Section 202 of such Act (8 U.S.C. 1152) is
amended—
(1) in subsection (a)— (A) in paragraph (3), by striking “both subsections (a)
and (b) of section 203” and inserting “section 203(a)”; and (B) by striking
paragraph (5); and (2) by amending subsection (e) to read as follows:
“(e) Special rules for countries at ceiling.—If the total number of immigrant
visas made available under section 203(a) to natives of any single foreign
state or dependent area will exceed the numerical limitation specified in
subsection (a)(2) in any fiscal year, immigrant visas shall be allotted to such
natives under section 203(a) (to the extent practicable and otherwise
consistent with this section and section 203) in a manner so that, except as
provided in subsection (a)(4), the proportion of the visas made available
under each of paragraphs (1) through (4) of section 203(a) is equal to the ratio
of the total visas made available under the respective paragraph to the total
visas made available under section 203(a).”.
Country-Specific offset.—Section 2 of the Chinese Student Protection Act of
1992 (Public Law 102–404; 8 U.S.C. 1255 note) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a), by striking “(as defined in subsection (e))”;
(2) by striking subsection (d); and
(3) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (d).
(d) Application.—The amendments made by this section shall apply
beginning on the date that is the first day of the second fiscal year beginning
after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(e) Transition rules for employment-Based immigrants.—Notwithstanding
title II of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1151 et seq.), the
following transition rules shall apply to employment-based immigrants,
beginning on the date referred to in subsection (d):
(1) RESERVED VISAS FOR LOWER ADMISSION STATES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—For the first nine fiscal years after the date referred to in
subsection (d), immigrant visas under each of paragraphs (2) and (3) of
section 203(b) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1153(b)) shall
be reserved and allocated to immigrants who are natives of a foreign state or
dependent area that is not one of the two foreign states or dependent areas
with the highest demand for immigrant visas as follows:

(i) For the first fiscal year after such date, 30 percent of such visas.
(ii) For the second fiscal year after such date, 25 percent of such visas.
(iii) For the third fiscal year after such date, 20 percent of such visas.
(iv) For the fourth fiscal year after such date, 15 percent of such visas.
(v) For the fifth and sixth fiscal years after such date, 10 percent of such
visas.
(vi) For the seventh, eighth, and ninth fiscal years after such date, 5 percent
of such visas.
(B) ADDITIONAL RESERVED VISAS FOR NEW ARRIVALS.—For each of
the first nine fiscal years after the date referred to in subsection (d), an
additional 5.75 percent of the immigrant visas made available under each of
paragraphs (2) and (3) of section 203(b) of the Immigration and Nationality
Act (8 U.S.C. 1153(b)) shall be allocated to immigrants who are natives of a
foreign state or dependent area that is not one of the two foreign states or
dependent areas with the highest demand for immigrant visas. Such
additional visas shall be allocated in the following order of priority:
(i) FAMILY MEMBERS ACCOMPANYING OR FOLLOWING TO
JOIN.—Visas reserved under this subparagraph shall be allocated to family
members described in section 203(d) of the Immigration and Nationality Act
(8 U.S.C. 1153(d)) who are accompanying or following to join a principal
beneficiary who is in the United States and has been granted an immigrant
visa or adjustment of status to lawful permanent residence under paragraph
(2) or (3) of section 203(b) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
1153(b)).
(ii) NEW PRINCIPAL ARRIVALS.—If at the end of the second quarter of any
fiscal year, the total number of visas reserved under this subparagraph
exceeds the number of qualified immigrants described in clause (i), such visas
may also be allocated, for the remainder of the fiscal year, to individuals (and
their family members described in section 203(d) of the Immigration and
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1153(d))) who are seeking an immigrant visa under
paragraph (2) or (3) of section 203(b) of the Immigration and Nationality Act
(8 U.S.C. 1153(b)) to enter the United States as new immigrants, and who
have not resided or worked in the United States at any point in the four-year
period immediately preceding the filing of the immigrant visa petition.

(iii) OTHER NEW ARRIVALS.—If at the end of the third quarter of any fiscal
year, the total number of visas reserved under this subparagraph exceeds the
number of qualified immigrants described in clauses (i) and (ii), such visas
may be also be allocated, for the remainder of the fiscal year, to other
individuals (and their family members described in section 203(d) of the
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1153(d))) who are seeking an
immigrant visa under paragraph (2) or (3) of section 203(b) of the
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1153(b)).
(2) RESERVED VISAS FOR SHORTAGE OCCUPATIONS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—For each of the first seven fiscal years after the date
referred to in subsection (d), not fewer than 4,400 of the immigrant visas
made available under section 203(b)(3) of the Immigration and Nationality
Act (8 U.S.C. 1153(b)(3)), and not reserved under paragraph (1), shall be
allocated to immigrants who are seeking admission to the United States to
work in an occupation described in section 656.5(a) of title 20, Code of Federal
Regulations (or any successor regulation).
(B) FAMILY MEMBERS.—Family members who are accompanying or
following to join a principal beneficiary described in subparagraph (A) shall
be entitled to a visa in the same status and in the same order of consideration
as such principal beneficiary, but such visa shall not be counted against the
4,400 immigrant visas reserved under such subparagraph.
(3) PER-COUNTRY LEVELS.—For each of the first nine fiscal years after
the date referred to in subsection (d)—
(A) not more than 25 percent (in the case of a single foreign state) or 2
percent (in the case of a dependent area) of the total number of visas reserved
under paragraph (1) shall be allocated to immigrants who are natives of any
single foreign state or dependent area; and
(B) not more than 85 percent of the immigrant visas made available under
each of paragraphs (2) and (3) of section 203(b) of the Immigration and
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1153(b)) and not reserved under paragraph (1), may
be allocated to immigrants who are native to any single foreign state or
dependent area.
(4) SPECIAL RULE TO PREVENT UNUSED VISAS.—If, at the end of the
third quarter of any fiscal year, the Secretary of State determines that the
application of paragraphs (1) through (3) would result in visas made available
under paragraph (2) or (3) of section 203(b) of the Immigration and

Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1153(b)) going unused in that fiscal year, such visas
may be allocated during the remainder of such fiscal year without regard to
paragraphs (1) through (3).
(5) RULES FOR CHARGEABILITY AND DEPENDENTS.—Section 202(b) of
the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1152(b)) shall apply in
determining the foreign state to which an alien is chargeable, and section
203(d) of such Act (8 U.S.C. 1153(d)) shall apply in allocating immigrant visas
to family members, for purposes of this subsection.
(6) DETERMINATION OF TWO FOREIGN STATES OR DEPENDENT
AREAS WITH HIGHEST DEMAND.—The two foreign states or dependent
areas with the highest demand for immigrant visas, as referred to in this
subsection, are the two foreign states or dependent areas with the largest
aggregate number beneficiaries of petitions for an immigrant visa under
section 203(b) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1153(b)) that
have been approved, but where an immigrant visa is not yet available, as
determined by the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of
Homeland Security.
SEC. 3. POSTING AVAILABLE POSITIONS THROUGH THE DEPARTMENT OF
LABOR
(a) Department of Labor website.—Section 212(n) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8
U.S.C. 1182(n)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
“(6) For purposes of complying with paragraph (1)(C):
“(A) Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of the , the Secretary of Labor
shall establish a searchable internet website for posting positions in accordance with
paragraph (1)(C) that is available to the public without charge, except that the Secretary
may delay the launch of such website for a single period identified by the Secretary by
notice in the Federal Register that shall not exceed 30 days.
“(B) The Secretary may work with private companies or nonprofit organizations to develop
and operate the internet website described in subparagraph (A).
“(C) The Secretary shall promulgate rules, after notice and a period for comment, to carry
out this paragraph.”.

(b) Publication requirement.—The Secretary of Labor shall submit to Congress, and publish
in the Federal Register and in other appropriate media, a notice of the date on which the
internet website required under section 212(n)(6) of the Immigration and Nationality Act,
as established by subsection (a), will be operational.
(c) Application.—The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply beginning on the date
that is 90 days after the date described in subsection (b).
(d) Internet posting requirement.—Section 212(n)(1)(C) of the Immigration and Nationality
Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(n)(1)(C)) is amended—
(1) by redesignating clause (ii) as subclause (II);
(2) by striking “(i) has provided” and inserting the following:
“(ii) (I) has provided”; and
(3) by inserting before clause (ii), as redesignated by paragraph (2), the following:
“(i) except in the case of an employer filing a petition on behalf of an H–1B nonimmigrant
who has already been counted against the numerical limitations and is not eligible for a full
6-year period, as described in section 214(g)(7), or on behalf of an H–1B nonimmigrant
authorized to accept employment under section 214(n), has posted on the internet website
described in paragraph (6), for at least 30 calendar days, a description of each position for
which a nonimmigrant is sought, that includes—
“(I) the occupational classification, and if different the employer’s job title for the position,
in which each nonimmigrant will be employed;
“(II) the education, training, or experience qualifications for the position;
“(III) the salary or wage range and employee benefits offered;
“(IV) each location at which a nonimmigrant will be employed; and
“(V) the process for applying for a position; and”.
SEC. 4.H-1B EMPLOYER PETITION REQUIREMENTS.
(a)Wage Determination Information.--Section 212(n)(1)(D) of the
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(n)(1)(D)) is amended by
inserting ``the prevailing wage determination methodology used under
subparagraph (A)(i)(II),'' after ``shall contain''.
(b) New Application Requirements.--Section 212(n)(1) of the

Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(n)(1)) is amended by
inserting after subparagraph (G) the following:
``(H)(i) The employer, or a person or entity acting on the
employer's behalf, has not advertised any available position
specified in the application in an advertisement that states or
indicates that--
``(I) such position is only available to an
individual who is or will be an H-1B nonimmigrant; or
``(II) an individual who is or will be an H-1B
nonimmigrant shall receive priority or a preference in
the hiring process for such position.
``(ii) The employer has not primarily recruited individuals
who are or who will be H-1B nonimmigrants to fill such
position.
``(I) If the employer, in a previous period specified by
the Secretary, employed one or more H-1B nonimmigrants, the
employer shall submit to the Secretary the Internal Revenue
Service Form W-2 Wage and Tax Statements filed by the employer
with respect to the H-1B nonimmigrants for such period.''.
(c) Additional Requirement for New H-1B Petitions.--
(1) In general.--Section 212(n)(1) of the Immigration and
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(n)(1)), as amended by subsection
(b), is further amended by inserting after subparagraph (I),
the following:
``(J)(i) If the employer employs 50 or more employees in
the United States, the sum of the number of such employees who
are H-1B nonimmigrants plus the number of such employees who
are nonimmigrants described in section 101(a)(15)(L) does not
exceed 50 percent of the total number of employees.
``(ii) Any group treated as a single employer under
subsection (b), (c), (m), or (o) of section 414 of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 shall be treated as a single employer for
purposes of clause (i).''.
(2) Rule of construction.--Nothing in subparagraph (J) of
section 212(n)(1) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8
U.S.C. 1182(n)(1)), as added by paragraph (1), may be construed
to prohibit renewal applications or change of employer
applications for H-1B nonimmigrants employed by an employer on
the date of the enactment of this Act.
(3) Application.--The amendment made by this subsection
shall apply with respect to an employer commencing on the date
that is 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.

(d) Labor Condition Application Fee.--Section 212(n) of the
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(n)), as amended by
section 3(a), is further amended by adding at the end the following:
``(7)(A) The Secretary of Labor shall promulgate a regulation that
requires applicants under this subsection to pay an administrative fee
to cover the average paperwork processing costs and other
administrative costs.
``(B)(i) Fees collected under this paragraph shall be deposited as
offsetting receipts within the general fund of the Treasury in a
separate account, which shall be known as the `H-1B Administration,
Oversight, Investigation, and Enforcement Account' and shall remain
available until expended.
``(ii) The Secretary of the Treasury shall refund amounts in such
account to the Secretary of Labor for salaries and related expenses
associated with the administration, oversight, investigation, and
enforcement of the H-1B nonimmigrant visa program.''.
(e) Elimination of B-1 in Lieu of H-1.--Section 214(g) of the
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1184(g)) is amended by adding
at the end the following:
``(12)(A) Unless otherwise authorized by law, an alien normally
classifiable under section 101(a)(15)(H)(i) who seeks admission to the
United States to provide services in a specialty occupation described
in paragraph (1) or (3) of subsection (i) may not be issued a visa or
admitted under section 101(a)(15)(B) for such purpose.
``(B) Nothing in this paragraph may be construed to authorize the
admission of an alien under section 101(a)(15)(B) who is coming to the
United States for the purpose of performing skilled or unskilled labor
if such admission is not otherwise authorized by law.''.
(f) Ending Media Abuse of H-1B.--Section 214(g) of the Immigration
and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1184(g)), as amended by subsection (e),
is further amended by adding at the end the following:
``(13) An alien normally classifiable under section 101(a)(15)(I)
who seeks admission to the United States solely as a representative of
the foreign press, radio, film, or other foreign information media, may
not be issued a visa or admitted under section 101(a)(15)(H)(i) to
engage in such vocation.''.
SEC. 5. ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS FOR EMPLOYMENT-BASED IMMIGRANTS.
(a) Adjustment of Status for Employment-Based Immigrants.--Section
245 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1255) is amended

by adding at the end the following:
``(o) Adjustment of Status for Employment-Based Immigrants.--
``(1) In general.--Notwithstanding subsection (a)(3), an
alien (including the alien's spouse or child, if eligible to
receive a visa under section 203(d)), may file an application
for adjustment of status if--
``(A) the alien--
``(i) is present in the United States
pursuant to a lawful admission as a
nonimmigrant, other than a nonimmigrant
described in subparagraph (B), (C), (D), or (S)
of section 101(a)(15), section 212(l), or
section 217; and
``(ii) subject to subsection (k), is not
ineligible for adjustment of status under
subsection (c); and
``(B) not less than 2 years have elapsed since the
immigrant visa petition filed by or on behalf of the
alien under subparagraph (E) or (F) of section
204(a)(1) was approved.
``(2) Protection for children.--The child of a principal
alien who files an application for adjustment of status under
this subsection shall continue to qualify as a child for
purposes of the application, regardless of the child's age or
whether the principal alien is deceased at the time an
immigrant visa becomes available.
``(3) Travel and employment authorization.--
``(A) Advance parole.--Applicants for adjustment of
status under this subsection shall be eligible for
advance parole under the same terms and conditions as
applicants for adjustment of status under subsection
(a).
``(B) Employment authorization.--
``(i) Principal alien.--Subject to
paragraph (4), a principal applicant for
adjustment of status under this subsection
shall be eligible for work authorization under
the same terms and conditions as applicants for
adjustment of status under subsection (a).
``(ii) Limitations on employment
authorization for dependents.--A dependent
alien who was neither authorized to work nor

eligible to request work authorization at the
time an application for adjustment of status is
filed under this subsection shall not be
eligible to receive work authorization due to
the filing of such application.
``(4) Conditions on adjustment of status and employment
authorization for principal aliens.--
``(A) In general.--During the time an application
for adjustment of status under this subsection is
pending and until such time an immigrant visa becomes
available--
``(i) the terms and conditions of the
alien's employment, including duties, hours,
and compensation, must be commensurate with the
terms and conditions applicable to the
employer's similarly situated United States
workers in the area of employment, or if the
employer does not employ and has not recently
employed more than two such workers, the terms
and conditions of such employment must be
commensurate with the terms and conditions
applicable to other similarly situated United
States workers in the area of employment; and
``(ii) consistent with section 204(j), if
the alien changes positions or employers, the
new position is in the same or a similar
occupational classification as the job for
which the petition was filed.
``(B) Special filing procedures.--An application
for adjustment of status filed by a principal alien
under this subsection shall be accompanied by--
``(i) a signed letter from the principal
alien's current or prospective employer
attesting that the terms and conditions of the
alien's employment are commensurate with the
terms and conditions of employment for
similarly situated United States workers in the
area of employment; and
``(ii) other information deemed necessary
by the Secretary of Homeland Security to verify
compliance with subparagraph (A).
``(C) Application for employment authorization.--

``(i) In general.--An application for
employment authorization filed by a principal
applicant for adjustment of status under this
subsection shall be accompanied by a
Confirmation of Bona Fide Job Offer or
Portability (or any form associated with
section 204(j)) attesting that--
``(I) the job offered in the
immigrant visa petition remains a bona
fide job offer that the alien intends
to accept upon approval of the
adjustment of status application; or
``(II) the alien has accepted a new
full-time job in the same or a similar
occupational classification as the job
described in the approved immigrant
visa petition.
``(ii) Validity.--An employment
authorization document issued to a principal
alien who has filed an application for
adjustment of status under this subsection
shall be valid for three years.
``(iii) Renewal.--Any request by a
principal alien to renew an employment
authorization document associated with such
alien's application for adjustment of status
filed under this subsection shall be
accompanied by the evidence described in
subparagraphs (B) and (C)(i).
``(5) Decision.--
``(A) In general.--An adjustment of status
application filed under paragraph (1) may not be
approved--
``(i) until the date on which an immigrant
visa becomes available; and
``(ii) if the principal alien has not,
within the preceding 12 months, filed a
Confirmation of Bona Fide Job Offer or
Portability (or any form associated with
section 204(j)).
``(B) Request for evidence.--If at the time an
immigrant visa becomes available, a Confirmation of

Bona Fide Job Offer or Portability (or any form
associated with section 204(j)) has not been filed by
the principal alien within the preceding 12 months, the
Secretary of Homeland Security shall notify the alien
and provide instructions for submitting such form.
``(C) Notice of intent to deny.--If the most recent
Confirmation of Bona Fide Job Offer or Portability (or
any form associated with section 204(j)) or any prior
form indicates a lack of compliance with paragraph
(4)(A), the Secretary of Homeland Security shall issue
a notice of intent to deny the application for
adjustment of status and provide the alien the
opportunity to submit evidence of compliance.
``(D) Denial.--An application for adjustment of
status under this subsection may be denied if the alien
fails to--
``(i) timely file a Confirmation of Bona
Fide Job Offer or Portability (or any form
associated with section 204(j)) in response to
a request for evidence issued under
subparagraph (B); or
``(ii) establish, by a preponderance of the
evidence, compliance with paragraph (4)(A).
``(6) Fees.--
``(A) In general.--Notwithstanding any other
provision of law, the Secretary of Homeland Security
shall charge and collect a fee in the amount of $2,000
to process each Confirmation of Bona Fide Job Offer or
Portability (or any form associated with section
204(j)) filed under this subsection.
``(B) Deposit and use of fees.--Fees collected
under subparagraph (A) shall be deposited and used as
follows:
``(i) Fifty percent of such fees shall be
deposited in the Immigration Examinations Fee
Account established under section 286(m).
``(ii) Fifty percent of such fees shall be
deposited in the Treasury of the United States
as miscellaneous receipts.
``(7) Application.--
``(A) The provisions of this subsection--
``(i) shall apply beginning on the date

that is one year after the date of the
enactment of the ; and
``(ii) except as provided in subparagraph
(B), shall cease to apply as of the date that
is nine years after the date of the enactment
of such Act.
``(B) This subsection shall continue to apply with
respect to any alien who has filed an application for
adjustment of status under this subsection any time
prior to the date on which this subsection otherwise
ceases to apply.
``(8) Clarifications.--For purposes of this subsection:
``(A) The term `similarly situated United States
workers' includes United States workers performing
similar duties, subject to similar supervision, and
with similar educational backgrounds, industry
expertise, employment experience, levels of
responsibility, and skill sets as the alien in the same
geographic area of employment as the alien.
``(B) The duties, hours, and compensation of the
alien are `commensurate' with those offered to United
States workers in the same area of employment if the
employer can demonstrate that the duties, hours, and
compensation are consistent with the range of such
terms and conditions the employer has offered or would
offer to similarly situated United States employees.''.
(b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 245(k) of the Immigration and
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1255(k)) is amended by adding ``or (n)''
after ``pursuant to subsection (a)''.