HR 9
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
July 17 2022
Mr. Jones (for himself) introduced the following:
A BILL
For the annual sale of excess property owned by the federal government.
Be it enacted by the House of Representatives and Senate of the United States
of America in Congress assembled —
SECTION. 1. TITLE.
SHORT TITLE.— This Act may be cited as the “Excess Property Sale Act” or the
EPSA.
SECTION. 2. FINDINGS.
(a) FINDINGS.— In context of this Act, Congress finds that —
(1) in 2010, the federal government held 77,700 buildings it determined to
be in excess;
(2) the federal government spent an estimated $1.67 billion operating and
maintaining these excess properties;
(3) the associated costs of maintaining excess properties can be a
substantial weight on financial resources; and
(4) such financial resources could and should be allocated towards more
important fiscal obligations.

SECTION. 3. PURPOSE.
(a) PURPOSE.— The purpose of this Act is to begin the annual process of selling
excess property owned by the federal government that is determined to be
unnecessary.
SECTION. 4. DEFINITIONS.
(a) DEFINITIONS.— In context of this Act, Congress defines —
(1) DIRECTOR.— The term “Director” as the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget, except where otherwise specified.
(2) EXCESS PROPERTY.— The term “excess property” as a portion or the
entirety of any real estate and real or personal property owned by the
federal government that is not required to meet the needs or
responsibilities of any federal obligations or agencies.
SECTION. 5. DIVESTITURE.
(a) DIVESTITURE.— No later than a year after the enactment of this Act and
every year thereafter, the Director shall cooperatively plan and execute the
divestiture of no more than ten thousand excess properties through sale on
the open market.
(1) PRIORITY.— The Director shall ensure that the divestiture under
subsection (a) gives priority to properties that have been determined to
have —
(1) the greatest potential for sale; and
(2) the highest fair market value.
(2) TIMELINE.— The Director shall ensure the divestiture under
subsection (a) is done gradually and expeditiously over a period of ten
years.
(3) REVENUE.— Any revenue generated from the divestiture under
subsection (a) shall be transferred to the General Fund on a bimonthly
basis.

(b) ACCOUNTING.— The Director shall keep a detailed account of —
(1) planned sales transactions;
(2) pending sales transactions;
(3) completed sales transactions;
(4) any other relevant transaction history; and
(5) the total value of the remaining excess properties.
(c) REPORTING.— No later than a year after the enactment of this Act and every
year thereafter, the Director shall deliver a report to Congress containing —
(1) all records under subsection (b); and
(2) suggested changes to improve the execution of this Act.
(d) TERMINATION.— No later than a year after the timeline for the divestiture
under subsection (a)(2) has passed, the Director shall —
(1) complete any outstanding business or obligations; and
(2) return unobligated funds to the General Fund.
(e) SUNSET.— Following the termination under subsection (d), this section shall
be terminated.
SECTION. 6. ENACTMENT.
(a) SUPREMACY.— For any provision of any statute that contradicts any section
of this Act, the contradictory provision of that statute shall be struck and
nullified.
(b) SEVERABILITY.— If any provision of this Act is or becomes illegal, invalid or
unenforceable in any jurisdiction, that shall not affect —
(1) the validity or enforceability in that jurisdiction of any other provision
of this Act; or
(2) the validity or enforceability in other jurisdictions of that or any other
provision of this Act.
(c) ENACTMENT.— This Act shall be given force immediately upon passage.