170TH CONGRESS
1ST SESSION
S. 6
To amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 to prohibit institutions of higher
education participating in Federal student assistance programs from giving
preferential treatment in the admissions process to legacy students or donors.
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
O 13, 2023
CTOBER
Mrs. Dawson-Lockhart of Lincoln (for herself,) introduced the following bill;
A BILL
To amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 to prohibit institutions of higher
education participating in Federal student assistance programs from giving
preferential treatment in the admissions process to legacy students or donors.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as the Fair College Admissions for Students
Act.
SEC. 2. BAN ON LEGACY OR DONOR PREFERENCES IN ADMISSIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.— In General.—Section 487(a) of the Higher Education Act of
1965 (20 U.S.C. 1094(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(30) (A) The institution will not provide any manner of preferential treatment
in the admission process to applicants on the basis of their relationships to—
(i) donors to the institution; or
(ii) except as provided in subparagraph (B), alumni of the institution.
(B) The Secretary may waive the limitation described in subparagraph (A)(ii)
for an award year for an eligible institution described in section 371(a) if such
institution demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Secretary that preferential
treatment in the admission process to applicants on the basis of their
relationships to alumni of the institution is in the best interest of students
who have been historically underrepresented in higher education.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.— Effective Date.—The amendment made by subsection (a)
shall take effect on the first day of the second award year (as defined in
section 481(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1088(a))) that
begins after the date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 3. ENACTMENT.
(a) ENACTMENT.— This legislation shall go into effect immediately following its
passage.
Meta note: This bill was originally introduced by Jamaal Bowman in the 117th
Congress.