IN THE CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES
MAY 4, 2020
Mr. Ricca (for himself, Rep. John McCain, Rep. Mitchell, Rep.
Marsh, Env. Sec. Rosa Berry, Rep. Jess Reed, Rep. Tam Nemoy,
Rep. Sleek, Rep. Raoul Duke, Rep. Lester, Rep. Johnson, Rep.
Waffles, Rep. MacIntyre) introduced the following bill;
A BILL
To combat food waste and to redistribute excess food production.
Be it enacted by the House of Representatives and the Senate of the United States of America in
Congress Assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This bill may be cited as the “Food Act 2020”
SECTION 2. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act—

1. “Excess Production or Surplus Production” - refer to both excess production proper, i.e. a
surplus of production directly at the production site, and also to any excess stock
accumulated during the process of distribution of the products.
2. “Food Bank” - refers to the surplus production redistribution organisation that will be
instituted by this bill (Section 3).
3. “
SECTION 3. CREATING A FOOD BANK.
Having considered the incredible quantity of food wasted because of lack of profit prospects in
its distribution, this Congress finds that, especially in times of needs such as during the
SARS-COV-2 pandemic, the excess production shall instead of being destroyed be collected by
the public and redistributed to those in the need.
Such Food Bank shall be organised as such—
A. Each County shall have their Food Production Excess office. Such offices will be tasked
with the organisation of the collection of said excess production,
B. Each State will have a Food Bank Coordination Office, tasked with the allotment and
redistribution of the resources collected by the County Food Production Excess Offices,
C. The new Food Bank Coordination office, placed under Food and Nutrition Service
agency of the Department of Agriculture, will be tasked with the role of general
coordination between the statal Food Bank Coordination Offices and to eventually
relocate an excess of resources, if possible, if the State agrees and in compatibility with
the nature of the goods, from one State to another.
SECTION 4. NEW ASSUMPTIONS.
To provide for organisation, inspection and other duties related to the program the Department of
Agriculture shall have the permission to hire up to one employee per ten thousands (1/10,000)
inhabitants of each State or up to at least one thousand (1000) per State. They will be assigned to
the various counties by the State’s Food Bank Coordination Office. These assumptions shall be
complemented by volunteers who will aid the collection and distribution program. The
Department of Agriculture shall be granted up to a maximum of one billion ($1B) extra funds for
this project.
SECTION 5. ELIGIBILITY TO THE FOOD BANK PROGRAM
To have access to the food distributions under the Food Bank program the applicant shall—
A. File an application to to their local Food Production Excess office
B. Have a household gross monthly income under 150% of poverty
C. Have household countable resources under $10.000 (adjusted for inflation)

If the household is spending more than 30% of their income in rent, the exceeding part shall be
excluded from the income count.
From the countable resources evaluation shall be excluded—
A. A home and a lot,
B. The resources of people who receive Supplemental Security Income (SSI),
C. The resources of people who receive Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF;
also known as welfare),
D. Retirement and Pension plans under $30.000 (adjusted for inflation) (withdrawals from
these accounts may count as either income or resources depending on how often they
occur).
If all members of the household are receiving Temporary Assistance for Needy Families
(TANF), Supplemental Security Income (SSI), or other general assistance, the household shall be
deemed “categorically eligible” for access to the Food Bank program.
SECTION 6. ENACTMENT
The provisions of this act shall become effective immediately. The funds will be provided to the
Department of Agriculture and the organisation of the Food Bank shall start immediately. The
recruitment of the new employees shall start immediately upon necessity. Volunteers shall be
accepted and integrated into the organisation as soon as the various Offices are instituted and
staffed.