164TH CONGRESS
1ST SESSION
S. 1
To require the United States to reduce dependency on fossil fuels,
improve national energy independence, invest in research for
renewable energy, and for other purposes.
MR. HARRIS-CHAREST (for himself, MS. HEINALOUMA OF OLYMPIA, MS.
KALLIS OF PACIFICA, MR. MILLER OF LINCOLN, REPRESENTATIVE TWOS OF
LINCOLN) introduced the following bill.
AN ACT
To require the United States to reduce dependency on fossil fuels, improve national energy
independence, invest in research for renewable energy, and for other purposes.
Be it enacted by the Senate and the House of Representatives of the United States of America
in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the Generating Renewable Energy and improving Economic
innovatioN Act of 2023, or the GREEN Act.
SEC 2. FINDINGS.
The Congress of the United States finds that:
(a) Fossil fuels are a nonrenewable, finite resource;
(b) A large portion of American energy generation requires the use of fossil
fuels;
(c) A large portion of American energy usage relies on fossil fuels;
(d) The United States imported more than nine million barrels of oil per day
in 2019 to sustain its operations and uses;

2
(e) Of the over 9 million barrels of oil imported to the United States, almost
75 percent was crude oil, requiring refinement and harming the
environments of several cities, towns, and waterways;
(f) At current rates of use, the planet will run out of coal in 2156, natural gas
in 2078, and crude oil in 2070;
(g) Over 95 percent of vehicles in the United States require gasoline, a
product made from the refinement of crude oil, to operate;
(h) There lacks suitable infrastructure to allow alternative fuel vehicles to
compete with conventional fuel vehicles;
(i) Infrastructure is developed based on demand, which is made artificially
scarce due to American energy policy and priorities;
(j) A future scarcity of fossil fuels pose an inherent risk to the American
economy and our national defense;
(k) In 2019, petroleum and natural gas products produced 1.04 quadrillion
and 5.21 quadrillion British thermal units of energy in the residential
sector, making a total of 6.25 quadrillion British thermal units of energy
for residential use;
(l) In 2019, renewables produced less than one quadrillion British thermal
units of energy for residential use;
(m)The demand for electricity is increasing annually in the United States;
(n) Renewable sources of energy can provide and sustain the United States in
the long term;
(o) Investing in renewable sources of energy to power the United States
requires a diversification of sources; and,
(p) The United States shall be a world leader on investments into, and
research around, the implementation of renewable sources of energy.
SEC 3. DEFINITIONS.
As used in this act and unless otherwise defined, the term:
(a) “Department” shall retain the same definition as enacted in 42 USC
§7101.
(b) “Function” shall retain the same definition and conditions for
interpretation as enacted in 42 USC §7101.
(c) “Secretary” shall be defined as the principal officer of the Department of
Energy.
(d) “Administrator” shall be defined as the Administrator of the Federal
Energy Administration.
(e) “Conventionally fuelled vehicle” shall be interpreted as meaning any
vehicle that relies solely or primarily on gasoline or diesel fuel to propel
itself.

3
TITLE I. REDUCTION OF FOSSIL FUELS.
SUBTITLE A — USAGE TARGETS
SECTION 101. ESTABLISHING TARGETS FOR ENERGY GENERATION AND
CONSUMPTION.— Title 42, United States Code, is amended by inserting after
Chapter 84, Subchapter X the following:
“SUBCHAPTER XI – ENERGY TARGETS
“§ 7361. Preparation of energy targets.
“(a) No later than the first day of July of 2023, and every year
thereafter, the President, in collaboration with the Secretary, shall
transmit to the Congress energy targets for net imports of fossil fuels,
domestic production of fossil fuels, domestic production of renewable
energy, and end-use consumption of energy of all sources for the the
next four calendar years that are evenly divisible by 5. Such targets
shall be transmitted in the form prescribed in section 7363.
“(b) In preparing energy targets under this section, the
President shall take into account anticipated energy conservation and
anticipated production of energy from new technologies, and shall
transmit with the targets supporting data together with a statement
of the assumptions on which the targets are based.
“(c) Before the first day of July of 2024, and of every year
thereafter, the President shall transmit to the Congress and the public
a report regarding the energy targets transmitted during the
preceding year, and shall declare whether or not targets were met.
Should a target not be met, an explanation shall accompany the
declaration.
“(d) The President is prohibited from providing targets that
reduce the use of renewable sources of energy, nor targets that fail to
increase the use of renewable sources of energy to the greatest extent
possible.
“§ 7362. Congressional consideration.
“(a)

4
“(1) Any Department of Energy authorization bill for
any portion of the fiscal year 2024 and any such bill affecting
any portion of any subsequent fiscal year which is proposed in
an executive communication to the Congress shall include the
targets required by section 7361(a) to be transmitted by July of
the preceding fiscal year. Such targets shall be in the form
prescribed in section 7363 and shall be set forth as a separate
title at the end of the proposed bill.
“(2) The energy targets transmitted to the Congress
under section 7361 shall be considered by any committee of the
House of Representatives or the Senate in connection with any
Department of Energy authorization bill for fiscal year 2024 or
any following fiscal year. This paragraph shall apply during the
One Hundred and Sixty-third Congress, and during any
subsequent Congress (with respect to Department of Energy
authorization bills for later fiscal years) to the extent expressly
provided in any Act (other than an appropriation Act) approved
after the date of the enactment of this Act.
“(3)
“(A) During the One Hundred and Sixty-third
Congress, it shall be in order (notwithstanding any rule
or provision of law) during the consideration in the
House of Representatives, in the Senate, or in any
committee of either, of any Department of Energy
authorization bill for fiscal year 2024, or a joint
resolution (as defined in subsection (d)(1)(B)), to offer
and consider, except as provided in subparagraph (B)—
“(i) any amendment (or series of
amendments) only changing the number of any
energy target contained in such bill or resolution,
or
“(ii) in the case of any such authorization
bill, any amendment only adding a title
containing only energy targets in the form
prescribed in section 7363 if such bill does not
contain such a title, or only deleting such a title

5
contained in such bill.
“(B) Any amendment (or series of amendments)
referred to in subparagraph (A) shall not be in order
unless it continues, improves upon, or achieves
mathematical consistency within the targets
transmitted by the President.
“(b)
“(1) If —
“(A) on or before July 1, 2023, no Department of
Energy authorization bill for fiscal year 2024 has been
reported to either House of the Congress by any of the
respective authorizing committees, or
“(B) no committee which has reported such an
authorization bill in either House by such date has
included energy targets in the form prescribed in section
7363 as a separate title,
a joint resolution introduced in the Senate or the House
of Representatives after such date shall be subject to the
provisions of this section and shall immediately be referred to
the appropriate authorizing committees, which shall have until
August 1, 2023, to consider and report such resolution.
“(2) If on or before August 1, 2023, the appropriate
authorizing committees of the House of Representatives or the
Senate have not reported such a joint resolution, such
committees of that House may be discharged from further
consideration of such joint resolution (or any other joint
resolution) in accordance with paragraph (4) of section 552(d) of
the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (as if it were a
resolution relating to a contingency plan) if a motion for such a
discharge is made during the period of 5 calendar days of
continuous session of Congress which follows August 1, 2023.
“(3) The provisions of subsections (c) and (d)(5) and (6) of
section 552 of such Act shall apply with respect to the
consideration of such a joint resolution in either House, except

6
that—
“(A) debate on such joint resolution shall be
limited to not more than 3 hours,
“(B) it shall be in order (notwithstanding any
rule or provision of law) to offer and consider any
amendment (or series of amendments) permitted under
subsection (a)(3), and
“(C) the references in such provisions to any
resolution relating to a contingency plan shall be
considered to refer to a joint resolution under this
section.
“(c) In the consideration of any Department of Energy
authorization bill containing a title setting forth energy targets, the
question of whether any amendment (other than an amendment
referred to in subsection (a)(3)) to any portion of such bill (including
such title) is in order in the House of Representatives, in the Senate,
or in any committee of either, shall be determined as if the title
containing such targets were not in the bill.
“(d)
“(1) For purposes of this section—
“(A) the term "Department of Energy
authorization bill" means any general authorization of
appropriations for the civilian programs and activities of
the Department of Energy;
“(B) the term "joint resolution" means only a joint
resolution of either House of Congress
(i) which is entitled "Joint resolution
relating to energy targets.",
“(ii) which does not contain a preamble,
and

7
“(iii) the matter after the resolving clause
of which only contains energy targets in the form
prescribed by section 7363; and
“(C) the term "energy target" means any number
contained in the form prescribed in section 303.
“(2) This section is enacted by Congress—
“(A) as an exercise of the rulemaking power of
the Senate and the House of Representatives,
respectively, and as such it is deemed a part of the rules
of each House, respectively, but applicable only with
respect to the procedure to be followed in that House in
the case of Department of Energy authorization bills
and joint resolutions described by paragraph (1) of this
subsection; and it supersedes other rules only to the
extent that it is inconsistent therewith; and
“(B) with full recognition of the constitutional
right of either House to change the rules (so far as
relating to the procedure of that House) at any time, in
the same manner and to the same extent as in the case
of any other rule of the House.
“§ 7363. Energy Target Form.
“(a) For the purposes of this title, energy targets shall be set
forth in the following form:

8
with appropriate revisions made to update the years as required.
“(b) As used in subsection (a)—
“(1) the term "crude oil and NGL" includes liquid
products obtained from lease operations, field facilities, and
natural gas processing plants and liquid petroleum obtained
from shale and tar sands;
“(2) the term "coal", when used under the domestic
production category, includes coal which is converted to gaseous
or liquid fuels;
“(3) the term "renewables" includes energy or fuel
derived directly from sunlight or from biomass (as defined in
section 203), and hydropower sources;
‘(4) the term "end-use consumption" does not include
exports of fuel or electricity;

9
‘(5) the term "decentralized renewables" does not
include electricity produced for delivery to multiple points of
end-use consumption; and
“(6) the term "conversion loss" includes heat or other
forms of energy not recovered in the conversion of raw energy
resources, fuels, or electricity into alternate form prior to
delivery for end use consumption.
“§ 7364. General provisions regarding targets.
“(a) The energy targets set forth pursuant to this title in any
joint resolution or any Act authorizing appropriations for the
Department of Energy shall be considered as an expression of national
goals and shall not be considered to have any legal force or effect.
“(b) Expenses paid or incurred by the President for preparing
the energy targets and reports under this title shall be from funds
otherwise available to the Department of Energy, consistent with
otherwise applicable law. Such targets and reports shall be prepared
using the minimum extent of contracting assistance that is required
for their preparation. If any assistance is required to be obtained by
contract for the preparation of the targets and reports, that assist-
ance shall be limited to the providing of supporting information and
may not include the preparation or recommendation of any proposed
or final energy target.
“(c) The preparation and transmission of such targets or
reports shall not be considered a major Federal action for the purposes
of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969.”
SUBTITLE B — WIND DOWN OF FOSSIL DEPENDENCY
SECTION 102. ESTABLISHING A COMPREHENSIVE ENERGY PLAN.— Title 15,
United States Code, is amended by striking Section 781 in its entirety, and replacing
it with the following:
“§ 781. COMPREHENSIVE ENERGY PLAN.
“(a) REPORT TO PRESIDENT AND CONGRESS;
ANALYTICAL JUSTIFICATION; SCOPE OF ANALYSIS.— Pursuant

10
and subject to the provisions and procedures set forth in this chapter,
the Administrator shall, within 90 days from the effective date of this
Act, develop and report to the the Secretary, the President, and
Congress a comprehensive plan designed to reduce energy
consumption, and meet or exceed:
“(1) the amount of reduction in fossil fuel usage; and,
“(2) the amount of renewable energy generated within
the United States set forth in the plan put forth by the
Secretary of Energy as laid out in section 201 of this Act.
“(b) Such a plan shall project forward to 2025 in line with the
energy targets as set in section 201 of this Act, upon which it shall
expire. The Administrator shall propose a new plan in line with the
requirements for the Secretary’s energy plan.
“(c) Such plan shall be accompanied by full analytical
justification for the actions proposed therein. Such analysis shall
include, but not be limited to—
“(1) estimates of the energy savings of each action and of
the program as a whole;
“(2) estimates of any windfall losses and gains to be
experienced by corporations, industries, and citizens grouped
by socioeconomic class;
“(3) estimates of the impact on supplies and
consumption of energy forms consequent to such price changes
as are or may be proposed; and
“(4) a description of alternative actions which the
Administrator has considered together with a rationale in
explanation of the rejection of any such alternatives in
preference to the measures actually proposed.
“(b) Alterations; analytical justifications.— The Administrator
may, from time to time, modify or otherwise alter any such plan,
except that, upon request of an appropriate committee of the
Congress, the Administrator shall supply analytical justifications for

11
any such alterations.
“(c) Monitoring activity.— The Administrator shall be
responsible for monitoring any such plans as are implemented with
respect to their effectiveness in achieving the anticipated benefits.
SECTION 103. REVISION.— Title 42, United States Code is amended in section
7321 by—
(a) striking “April 1, 1979”, and replacing it with “September 1, 2023”.
(b) striking “biennally”, and replacing it with “annually”
SECTION 104: REVISION.— Title 42, United States Code is amended by adding the
following after subparagrapgh (1) of section 7321 as subparagraph (2), and
redesignating the following subparagraphs:
“(2) support and facilitate the plans of the Secretary and the
Administrator as outlined in sections 102 and 201 of the Generating
Renewable Energy and improving Economic innovatioN Act, and to further
reduce the use of fossil fuels by 2030 to 50 percent of current usage levels,
eliminate the use of fossil fuels by 2040 for all uses not directly connected to
or affecting the national security of the United States, and to completely
eliminate the use of fossil fuels for all energy needs of the United States by
2060;
SECTION 105. REVISION.— Title 42, United States Code is amended by striking
“and thereafter,” in section 13232, and replacing with “until the end of the fiscal year
2023,”.
SECTION 106. RESTRICTIONS INVOLVING VEHICLES USING INTERNAL
COMBUSTION ENGINES FOR FEDERAL USE.— Title 42, United States Code is
amended by adding “The Federal government is prohibited for acquiring
conventionally fuelled vehicles for use in the Federal fleet after December 31, 2024.”
following “alternative fuel vehicles.” in section 13232(b)(1).

12
SECTION 107. ESTABLISHING TRANSITIONAL DEADLINES.— Title 42, United
States Code, is amended by striking the period (.) at the end of section 13232(b)(2),
and replacing it with “until December 31st, 2024. Beginning January 1, 2025, all
federal fleets must take action to meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (1),
and shall be in compliance no later than July 1, 2025.”
SECTION 108. TERMINATION OF PERMITS.— Title 30, United States Code, is
amended in chapter 3A by creating a new subchapter after Subchapter IX and
designating it as Subchapter X, with the following text—
“SUBCHAPTER X — TERMINATION
“§ 291. TERMINATION OF PERMITS
“(a) No land leases or permits shall be issued under
Subchapters II, IV, V, or VI to extract products for domestic use after
2030.
“(b) No land leases or permits shall be issued under
Subchapters II, IV, V, or VI to extract products after 2040, except for
collecting resources necessary to the national security of the United
States.
SUBTITLE C — INCREASING THE AVAILABILITY OF ALTERNATIVE FUEL
INFRASTRUCTURE
SECTION 109. ESTABLISHING A PROGRAM TO SUBSIDIZE RENEWABLE
FUEL INFRASTRUCTURE FOR VEHICLES.— Title 49, United States Code is
amended by inserting the following text as Chapter 9 of Subtitle I.—
“CHAPTER 9— DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
SUPPLEMENTARY FUNDING
“§ 901. ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE
“(a) ESTABLISHMENT.— There is to be established a
program to assist with the financing of stations dispensing
clean, non-conventional fuel for motor vehicles. Such a program
shall be administered by the Office of Climate Change and
Environment (defined by 49 USC 102(g), and will have input

13
from the Under Secretary of Transportation for Policy (49 USC
102(d)), the Assistant Secretary for Budget and Programs (49
USC 102(e)(1)(B)), and the Assistant Secretary for
Administration (49 USC 102(e)(1)(C)). This shall be known as
the Advancing Feasible Utility and Energy Loan Program,
henceforth known as the “A-FUEL Program”, or simply the
“Program”. The entities administering or having input on the
Program shall henceforth be defined as the “A-FUEL Board”, or
simply the “Board”.
“(b) PURPOSE.— The purpose of establishing this
program is to improve the availability of alternative fuels
throughout the United States.
“§ 902. DEFINITIONS.— For the purposes of this Chapter—
“(a) “Alternative Fuel Station” shall mean any plot of
land, upon which are devices to provide hydrogen, compressed
natural gas, biodiesel, or electricity for use to propel motor
vehicles
“(b) “Applicant” shall mean any person seeking to obtain
a loan under the Program.
“(c) “Borrower” shall mean any applicant who has
submitted an application that was subsequently approved for
disbursal.
“(d) “Secretary” shall mean the Secretary of
Transportation (as defined by 49 USC 102(b)), or any person
discharging the duties of the Secretary of Transportation
pursuant to requisite order or law.
“§ 902. REQUIREMENTS.— Any applicant must:
“(a) presently be in the process of acquiring land to
establish a new alternative fuel station, or in the process of
acquiring a defunct fuel station to convert it into an alternative
fuel station;

14
“(1) applicants must submit paperwork verifying
such claim to be true.
“(b) The Board shall be empowered to proscribe
additional requirements as it sees fit to limit the amount of
frivolous applications, but shall not impose regulations to
unjustly reduce the number of applicants.
“§ 903. ELIGIBILITY.— In order to be approved for a loan
disbursed under this program, any applicant must:
“(a) Be within 275 miles of an existing hydrogen fuel
station;
“(b) Have registered a business with the requisite state
entity;
“(c) Have a federal tax ID number with the Internal
Revenue Service;
“(d) Own and operate less than 4,000 fueling stations
across the United States and associated territories, with a
preference for small, local businesses, including branded
establishments owned by franchise owners.
“§ 904. REPAYMENT OF LOAN.—
“(a) INTEREST RATE.— The interest rate shall be a
rate equal to the high yield of the 10-year Treasury note
auctioned at the final auction held prior to such June 1. This
rate shall not exceed the value provided at the time of the
disbursement of the loan, but may be matched to the
aforementioned rate via order of the Board. Borrowers shall be
notified of a change in rate with 90 days of notice.
“(i) The Board shall be empowered to increase
the interest rate by one quarter of one percent for each
six month loan period in excess of 120 months.
“(ii) Should a loan be fully repaid within 24
months, the borrower shall be reimbursed for any

15
money paid towards interest.
“(iii) §4(a)(12) of the Supporting Those Under the
Department of Education’s New Terms Act of 2021 shall
also apply to this program, with the authority to change
rates remitted to the A-FUEL Board for the A-FUEL
Program.
“(b) FINANCE CHARGES.— There shall be applied a
charge of 10 percent of the loan principal to cover
administrative fees and associated expenses.
“(c) TERM OF LOAN.— Any borrower receiving funds
from the Program is empowered to select the term in which the
loan shall be active pursuant to the following criteria—
“(1) Borrowers may select any number of months
evenly divisible by 6 up to 120 months, or longer of
economic conditions warrant a longer term;
“(A) A borrower may exceed the 120
month limit, upon which any number of months
easily divisible by three shall be available.
“(i) Any term exceeding 120
months must be approved by the Board
before the disbursement of funds shall
take place.
“(a) Under no circumstances
will a loan term be approved
beyond 300 months without the
approval of the Secretary, who
shall not approve any loan term
exceeding 360 months.
“(2) Upon approval, the borrower must complete
a promi
“§ 905. GRANT AMOUNT AND FUNDING.—

16
“(a) The program shall be appropriated $100,000,000.00
annually, indexed to inflation, to be disbursed to applicants.
The number of awarded loans shall be no more than 200
anually, but no less than 50 and shall be set by the Board.
“(i) Any remaining funds that were not disbursed shall
carry over as a portion of the appropriation allotted to this
program.
TITLE II. ENERGY INDEPENDENCE.
SUBTITLE A — RENEWABLE ENERGY
SECTION 201. REAUTHORIZING THE DEVELOPMENT OF RENEWABLE
ENERGY PLANS.—
(a) Title 42, United States Code, is amended in Section 13471 by inserting the
following after Paragraph (b), and redesignating paragraph (c) as paragraph (e):
“(c) Reauthorizing renewable energy plans.
“The Secretary is required to provide and share a new plan to
increase the share of renewables used to generate energy in the
United States by 2025 within 90 days of the enactment of this Act
with Congress and the public, and shall provide status updates
pertinent to increasing the share of renewables in the United States
energy mix on a quarterly basis. The plan shall be considered expired
on January 1, 2025, with a report delivered on the outcomes no later
than March 1, 2025. The Secretary is required to propose a new five
year plan to 2030 no later than 60 days before the expiration of the
plan to 2025.
“(d) The requirements of paragraph (c) shall repeat in five year
intervals, substituting years as necessary.
(b) Title 42, United States Code, is amended in Section 13471 by inserting the
following after Paragraph (e):
“(f) Reauthorizing renewable energy plans

17
“The Secretary of the Treasury shall be authorized to
appropriate funds to finance programs to facilitate solar programs
(excluding programs under §13431 of this title), geothermal programs,
wind programs, hydroelectric programs, tidal energy programs, wave
energy programs, and new, promising renewable technologies in
Section 202.
SECTION 202: RESEARCH INTO RENEWABLE ENERGY SOURCES.—
(a) The Secretary of Energy, or other designated person with the
authority to discharge the statutory authority of the Secretary of Energy,
shall review—
(1) Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (Pub.L 74-605);
(2) Hydroelectric Power Act of 1935 (Pub.L 74-738);
(3) Flood Control Act of 1944 (Pub.L 78-534);
(4) Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1948 (Pub.L 80-845);
(5) Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (Pub.L 83-703);
(6) Renewable Energy Resources Act of 1960 (Pub.L 86-509);
(7) Demonstration Cities and Metropolitan Development Act of
1966 (Pub.L 89-754);
(8) National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (Pub.L 91-190);
(9) Resource Recovery Act of 1969 (Pub.L 91-512);
(10) Geothermal Energy Research, Development, and
Demonstration Act of 1974 (Pub.L 93-410);
(11) Solar Energy Research, Development, and Demonstration
Act of 1974 (Pub.L 93-473);
(12) Energy Conservation and Production Act of 1976 (Pub.L
94-385);

18
(13) Solar Energy and Energy Conservation Bank Act of 1978
(Pub.L 95-238);
(14) National Energy Act of 1978 (Pub.L 95-617);
(15) Energy Tax Act of 1978 (Pub.L 95-618);
(16) Biomass Energy and Alcohol Fuels Act of 1980 (Pub.L
96-294);
(17) Wind Energy Systems Act of 1980 (Pub.L 96-345);
(18) Energy Policy Act of 1992 (Pub.L 102-486);
(19) Energy Policy Act of 2005 (Pub.L 109-58);
(20) Renewable Energy Investment Tax Credit (created by the
Energy Policy Act of 2005 and extended by subsequent legislation);
(21) Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 (Pub.L
110-140);
(22) The Energy Improvement and Extension Act of 2008
(Pub.L 110-343);
(23) The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009
(Pub.L 111-5);
and propose to the President and Congress requisite changes in law to
provide for the continued research of, and development into, more sustainable
energy sources.
SECTION 203: INCREASING FEDERAL RENEWABLE ENERGY USE.— Title 42,
United States Code, is amended in section 15852 by—
(a) striking “and each fiscal year thereafter.” in section (a).
(b) adding the following text after part (3)—
(4) Not less than 10 percent in fiscal years 2024 through 2026;

19
(5) Not less than 20 percent in fiscal years 2027 through 2029;
(6) Not less than 30 percent in fiscal years 2030 through 2032;
(7) Not less than 40 percent in fiscal years 2033 through 2035;
(8) Not less than 50 percent in fiscal years 2036 through 2038
(9) Not less than 60 percent in fiscal year 2039, and for each
fiscal year thereafter.
SUBTITLE B — RESTRICTING SOURCES OF ENERGY PRODUCTION
SECTION 204: RESCINDING APPROVAL OF BIOMASS FOR DIRECT ENERGY
PRODUCTION.—
(a) Title 42, United States Code, is amended in Subchapter II, Part A by adding the
following text after section 8312—
“§ 8313. USE OF BIOMASS IN NEW ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS.
(a) No electric power plant beginning operations after July 1,
2023 shall be permitted to generate electricity by way of the
incineration of biomass products.
(b) Title 42, United States Code, is amended in Subchapter III, Part A by adding the
following text after section 8342—
“§ 8343. USE OF BIOMASS IN EXISTING ELECTRIC POWER
PLANTS.
(a) Beginning July 1, 2023, no existing electric power plant
shall be permitted to continue to generate electricity by way of the
incineration of biomass products.
SECTION 205: REVISIONS.—
(a) Notwithstanding any provision of law and subsequent amendments to law
except where explicitly provided, all references of “biomass” throughout the United
States Code, except for the purposes of defining the term, shall be struck, including
the use of “biomass” as an adjective (including, but not limited to): “biomass fuel”,
“biomass energy”, and related terms; It is the express policy of the United States

20
that biomass is no longer acceptable as a fuel source domestically, and where
otherwise subject to the special, maritime, or territorial jurisdiction of the United
States.
SECTION 206: REPEAL.— Pub. L 100-42 is hereby repealed.
SUBTITLE C — REDUCTION IN ENERGY USAGE
SECTION 207: Title 42, United States Code, is amended in section 13451.—
(a) by striking “5” in subsection (a), and replacing it with “multi”.
(b) by striking “;and ,” in subparagraph (b)(1)(B), and replacing it with
a semicolon;
(c) by adding the following text as subparagraph (b)(1)(C), and
redesignating any subsequent subparagraphs as needed.—
“(C) To reduce energy usage by:
“(i) five percent by 2025;
“(ii) ten percent by 2030;
“(iii) fifteen percent by 2035; and,
“(iv) twenty percent by 2040.
(d) by striking “;and ,” in subparagraph (b)(2)(B), and replacing it with
a semicolon;
(e) by adding the following text as subparagraph (b)(2)(C), and
redesignating any subsequent subparagraphs as needed.—
“(C) To reduce energy usage by:
“(i) five percent by 2025;
“(ii) ten percent by 2030;
“(iii) fifteen percent by 2035; and,

21
“(iv) twenty percent by 2040.
(f) by striking “October 24, 1992” in subsection (c), and replacing it
with “June 30, 2023”
(g) by striking “5” in subsection (c), and replacing it with “multi”
(h) by striking “October 24, 1992” in subsection (d), and replacing it
with “June 30, 2023”
(i) by striking “$178,250,000” in subsection (e), and replacing it with
“$225,000,000”
(j) by striking “1993” in subsection (e), and replacing it with “2023”.
(k) by striking “$275,000,000” in subsection (e), and replacing it with
“$350,000,000”
(l) by striking “1994” in subsection (e), and replacing it with “2024”.
TITLE III FACILITATING THE TRANSITION TO
RENEWABLE ENERGY
SECTION 301: ESTABLISHING DEPARTMENTAL OFFICES.—
(a) Title 42, United States Code is amended in chapter 84 by inserting the following
after subchapter XVII as subchapter XVIII—
“SUBCHAPTER XVIII— OFFICE OF RENEWABLE ENERGY
TRANSITION AND COORDINATION
“§ 7387. ESTABLISHMENT, PURPOSE, ADMINISTRATION,
AND DELEGATION OF FUNCTIONS
“(a) ESTABLISHMENT.— There shall be an office in the
Department, which shall work in conjunction with the Office of
Renewable Energy Education as defined in 20 USC §3428 to be
administered by the Director of Renewable Energy Transition
and Coordination appointed and compensated in the manner
described in section 7139 of this title.

22
“(b) DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF
DIRECTOR.— It shall be the duty and responsibility of the
Director to—
“(1) Consult with employers and labor unions in
the various fields of fossil fuel energy production to
determine the number of workers that are employed to
produce energy from fossil fuels;
“(2) Determine the average age of employees in
each sector of fossil fuel production, including, but not
limited to—
“(A) Petroleum products;
“(B) Natural Gas; and,
“(C) Coal.
and shall determine, in conjunction with the
Department of Labor, the average number of years
existing workers have remaining in field, and the
number of workers who are entering the field each year
to determine the number of employees that could
transition into renewable energy production;
“(A) For the purposes of this
subparagraph, employees will be considered
eligible to transition if they have not exceeded
67% of the average number of years in-field as
determined by the Secretary of Labor.
“(3) Consult with employers and labor unions in
the various fields of renewable energy production to
determine the number of workers needed to improve the
proliferation of renewable energy across the United
States;
“(4) Promote the availability of educational
opportunities via the Office of Renewable Energy
Education for those needing to transition out of fossil

23
fuel production, but remain in the energy sector;
“(5) Oversee the transition of workers in fossil
fuel energy production to green energy production
throughout all portions of the process; and,
“(6) Other duties as determined by the
Secretary.
“(c) PURPOSE.— The purpose of the Office of
Renewable Energy Transition and Coordination shall be to
ease, encourage, promote, and facilitate the transition of the
United States of America to 100% renewable energy, ideally by
2040.
“(d) FACILITIES.— The Secretary, in collaboration with
the Director, shall be allocated no fewer than six physical
offices; one office per state, and one in or near the offices of the
Department of Energy in Washington, DC. More physical
offices may be approved as needed by the Secretary to support
the purpose of the Office as outlined in section (c), or to enable
the Director to discharge their duties as outlined in section (b).
“(e) COORDINATION.—
“(1) IN GENERAL.— The Secretary shall—
“(A) shall ensure the coordination of the
Office of Renewable Energy Transition and
Coordination with the other activities of the
Department, including the transfer of knowledge,
capabilities, and rel- evant technologies from
basic research programs of the Department to
applied research and development programs of
the Department for the purpose of enabling
development of mission-relevant technologies;
‘‘(B) shall support joint activities among
the programs of the Department;
‘‘(C) shall coordinate with other relevant
Federal agencies operating under existing

24
authorizations relating to subjects relating to the
mission described in subsection (c) in supporting
advancements in related research areas as
appropriate; and
‘‘(D) may form partnerships to enhance
the utilization of and ensure access to user
facilities by other Federal agencies.
“(2) OFFICE OF RENEWABLE ENERGY
TRANSITION AND COORDINATION.— The Director
shall ensure the coordination of programs and activities
carried out by the Office of Renewable Energy
Transition and Coordination with other Offices and
Departments of the Department of Energy as required.
(b) Title 20, United States Code is amended in subchapter II by inserting the
following as a new section after section 3427 as section 3428—
“§3428. OFFICE OF RENEWABLE ENERGY EDUCATION
“(a) ESTABLISHMENT.— There shall be an office under the
Department, which shall work with the Office of Renewable Energy
Transition and Coordination under the Department of Energy as
defined in 42 USC §7387 to be administered by the Director of
Renewable Energy Education, who shall be appointed in line with
section 3411 of this title, and compensated at the rate provided for
Level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 5315 of Title 5.
“(b) DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTOR.— It
shall be the duty and responsibility of the Director to:
“(1) Promote careers in the design, manufacture,
installation, and or maintenance of renewable energy stations;
“(A) For the purposes of this subparagraph,
renewable energy stations shall be defined as any
installation of devices that generate electricity using
renewable energy as defined by section 2924 of Title 10,
excluding paragraph 6(c).

25
“(2) Consult with the Department of Energy, the
Department of Labor, and employers and labor unions in the
career fields mentioned in subparagraph (1) to determine the
projected number of workers needed to facilitate the transition
to, and maintenance of facilites needed to meet 150% of current
domestic electricity demand;
“(A) For the purposes of this subparagraph,
current electricity demand shall be measured as the
total electricity generated from a period starting on
March 1, 2022 and ending February 28, 2023.
“(3) Highlight the benefits of renewable energy to the
public via appropriate marketing campaigns in the areas of:
“(A) Environment;
“(B) Economy;
“(C) Public health;
“(D) National Security; and,
“(E) Any other area determined jointly by the
Secreatary and the Director to be of benefit to explain
the benefits of renewable energy.
There should be a focus on what sources of energy are best
suited to each locality in order to encourage more local
investment and attract local skilled labor;
“(4) Emphasize the importance of transitioning from
fossil fuels utilizing the same parameters used in
subparagraph (3);
“(5) Assist the Office of Postsecondary Education as
defined in section 3415 of this title to facilitate the creation of,
and support for programs that are determined to be useful in
supporting the goals of this Office.

26
SECTION 302: PROVIDING AID FOR EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES
RELATING TO TRANSITIONING TO GREEN ENERGY.— Title 20, United States
Code is amended by inserting the following text after Chapter 81—
“CHAPTER 82—TRAINING WORKERS IN GREEN ENERGY
INFRASTRUCTURE
“§11001. ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE.—
“(a) ESTABLISHMENT.— There shall be established a
grant program to aid and assist two year colleges, four year
colleges, and trade schools with developing, promoting, and
implementing programs to allow workers currently employed
in the fossil fuel industry to transition properly into careers in
green energy, and to allow those that are looking to enter into
careers in energy generation and development to gain the
proper skills the same right. This grant shall be known as the
Training Workers in Green Energy Infrastructure Grant, or
simply “TWIG-EI Grants”.
“(b) PURPOSE.— This grant program shall be made
effective to:
“(1) Alleviate expenses associate with research
around and development of programs to train workers
in trades necessary to construct and maintain
infrastructure to produce electricity from renewable
sources;
“(2) Provide incentive to institutions of higher
learning to encourage the development of such
programs;
“(3) Recruit educators in the necessary fields to
sustain the long term goal of energy independence
under a renewable future;
“(4) Open a path for workers in the fossil fuel
industry a way to transition out of work in a
non-renewable, limited field with time remaining;

27
“(5) Provide the same right to those looking to
provide a necessary utility for our nation and all of its
citizens;
“(6) Support workers looking to improve public
confidence in their skillset with new certifications; and,
“(7) Encourage the development of skilled labor
in a field with permanent longevity, providing our
country with a dedicated workforce in a field critical to
our national defense and sovereignty.
“§ 11002. GRANT REQUIREMENTS.—
“(a) IN GENERAL.— The Director of Renewable Energy
Education as defined in 20 USC 3428, as provided for in the
Generating Renewable Energy and improving Economic
innovatioN Act of 2023, shall be empowered to establish
requirements for the grant program defined by this Chapter
that meet or exceed the legislative minimum.
“(b) GEOGRAPHICAL CONSIDERATIONS.— Priority
will be given to awardees that are establishing programs that
will directly benefit their local communities. Preference will be
shown to programs training in:
“(1) Solar, based in the regions of:
“(A) California;
“(B) Nevada;
“(C) Utah;
“(D) Arizona;
“(E) Colorado;
“(F) New Mexico;
“(G) Hawaii;

28
“(H) Texas; and,
“(I) Florida.
“(2) Land-based Wind, based in the regions of:
“(A) Montana;
“(B) Wyoming;
“(C) Colorado;
“(D) New Mexico;
“(E) North Dakota;
“(F) South Dakota;
“(G) Nebraska;
“(H) Kansas;
“(I) Oklahoma;
“(J) Texas;
“(K) Minnesota;
“(L) Iowa;
“(M) Missouri;
“(N) Arkansas;
“(O) Wisconsin;
“(P) Illinois;
“(Q) Michigan;
“(R) Indiana;

29
“(S) Ohio;
“(T) New York; and,
“(U) Maine.
“(3) Offshore Wind, based in the coastal portions
of the regions of:
“(A) Oregon;
“(B) Washington;
“(C) California;
“(D) Hawaii;
“(E) Texas;
“(F) Michigan;
“(G) Wisconsin;
“(H) Illinois;
“(I) Indiana;
“(J) Ohio;
“(K) Pennsylvania;
“(L) New York;
“(M) Maine;
“(N) New Hampshire;
“(O) Rhode Island;
“(P) Connecticut;

30
“(Q) New Jersey;
“(R) Delaware
“(S) Maryland;
“(T) Virginia;
“(U) North Carolina; and,
“(V) South Carolina.
“(4) Geothermal, based in the regions of:
“(A) Nevada;
“(B) Oregon;
“(C) Washington;
“(D) Idaho; and,
“(E) Montana
“(5) Hydroelectric, based in the regions of:
“(A) Maine;
“(B) New Hampshire;
“(C) Vermont;
“(D) New York;
“(E) Massachusetts;
“(F) Rhode Island;
“(G) Connecticut;
“(H) New Jersey;

31
“(I) Pennsylvania;
“(J) West Virginia;
“(K) Kentucky;
“(L) Tennessee;
“(M) North Carolina;
“(N) South Carolina;
“(O) Georgia;
“(P) Alabama;
“(Q) Arkansas;
“(R) Mississippi;
“(S) Louisiana;
“(T) Washington; and,
“(U) California.
“(6) Tidal, based in the coastal portions of the
regions of:
“(7) Wave, based in the regions of:
“(A) Alaska;
“(B) Hawaii;
“(C) Washington;
“(D) Oregon; and;
“(E) California

32
“(c) ELIGIBILITY.— To be eligible for a grant under this
chapter, an entity must:
“(1) meet the requirements of being an
institution of higher education as defined by 20 USC
1001;
“(2) not be restricted from receiving federal funds
due to a violation of the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of
Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics
Act, as amended (20 USC 1092(f));
“(3) maintain accreditation for 75 percent of
currently offered courses of study;
“(4) maintain an average graduation rate of 65
percent or greater over the past four years; and,
“(5) submit documentation to the Department
regarding the location at which the program shall be
administered (if off of the defined campus grounds),
projected student enrollment, anticipated one-time
expenses relating to setup of the program, anticipated
recurring expenses relating to staff, overhead, and other
associated administrative overhead costs, and of any
connections with a business that is directly involved in
the generation of power via renewable energy or the
maintenance of such facilities that looking to invest in
the local area the program benefits.
“(A) For the purposes of this section,
“local” shall be defined as any area within a 75
mile radius of the address the program is located.
“(d) GRANT AMOUNT AND FUNDING.— The Director
shall be appropriated $100,000,000.00 annually indexed to
inflation through the fiscal year 2033, to be disbursed among
programs across the States as evenly as possible. The number
of awarded grants shall be no more than 100 anually, but no
less than 50 and shall be set by the Secretary, in collaboration
with the Director.

33
TITLE IV. CHANGES TO TAXATION REGARDING VEHICLES
SECTION 401: EXPANSION OF EXISTING TAX CREDITS.— Title 26, United
States Code, is amended by adding the following after section 25D:
“SEC. 25E. PREVIOUSLY-OWNED CLEAN VEHICLES.
‘‘(a) ALLOWANCE OF CREDIT.—In the case of a qualified buyer who
during a taxable year places in service a previously-owned clean vehicle,
there shall be allowed as a credit against the tax imposed by this chapter for
the taxable year an amount equal to the lesser of—
‘‘(1) $4,000, or
‘‘(2) the amount equal to 30 percent of the sale price with
respect to such vehicle.
‘‘(b) LIMITATION BASED ON MODIFIED ADJUSTED GROSS
INCOME.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—No credit shall be allowed under
subsection (a) for any taxable year if—
‘‘(A) the lesser of—
‘‘(i) the modified adjusted gross income of the tax-
payer for such taxable year, or
‘‘(ii) the modified adjusted gross income of the
tax- payer for the preceding taxable year, exceeds
‘‘(B) the threshold amount.
‘‘(2) Threshold amount.—For purposes of paragraph (1)(B), the
threshold amount shall be—
(A)in the case of a joint return or a surviving spouse (as
defined in section 2(a)), $165,000,
(B)in the case of a head of household (as defined in
section 2(b)), $123,750, and
(C)in the case of a taxpayer not described in
subparagraph (A) or (B), $82,500.

34
(3)Modified adjusted gross income.— For purposes of this
subsection, the term “modified adjusted gross income” means adjusted
gross income increased by any amount excluded from gross income
under section 911, 931, or 933.
(c) DEFINITIONS.— For purposes of this section—
(1) PREVIOUSLY-OWNED CLEAN VEHICLE.— The term
“previously-owned clean vehicle” means, with respect to a taxpayer, a
motor vehicle—
(A) the model year of which is at least 2 years earlier
than the calendar year in which the taxpayer acquires such
vehicle,
(B) the original use of which commences with a person
other than the taxpayer,
(C) which is acquired by the taxpayer in a qualified sale,
and
(D) which—
(i) meets the requirements of subparagraphs (C),
(D), (E), (F), and (H) (except for clause (iv) thereof) of
section 30D(d)(1), or
(ii) is a motor vehicle which—
(I) satisfies the requirements under
subparagraphs (A) and (B) of section 30B(b)(3),
and
(II) has a gross vehicle weight rating of
less than 14,000 pounds.
(2) QUALIFIED SALE.— The term “qualified sale” means a
sale of a motor vehicle—
(A) by a dealer (as defined in section 30D(g)(8)), and
(B) for a sale price which does not exceed $25,000.
(3) QUALIFIED BUYER.— The term “qualified buyer” means,
with respect to a sale of a motor vehicle, a taxpayer—

35
(A) who is an individual,
(B) who purchases such vehicle for use and not for
resale,
(C) with respect to whom no deduction is allowable with
respect to another taxpayer under section 151, and
(D) who has not been allowed a credit under this section
for any sale during the 3-year period ending on the date of the
sale of such vehicle.
(4) MOTOR VEHICLE; CAPACITY.— The terms “motor
vehicle” and “capacity” have the meaning given such terms in
paragraphs (2) and (4) of section 30D(d), respectively.
(d) VEHICLE IDENTIFICATION NUMBER REQUIREMENT.— No
credit shall be allowed under subsection (a) with respect to any vehicle unless
the taxpayer includes the vehicle identification number of such vehicle on the
return of tax for the taxable year.
(e) APPLICATION OF CERTAIN RULES.— For purposes of this
section, rules similar to the rules of section 30D(f) (without regard to
paragraph (10) or (11) thereof) shall apply for purposes of this section.
(f) LIMITS ON APPLICATION OF CREDIT.— No taxpayer shall be
allotted to claim any credit authorized by this section on more than three
vehicles, plus one vehicle per dependent in excess of 14 years of age, but not
more than 18 years of age.
SECTION 402: REMOVING OUTDATED INFORMATION PERTAINING TO FUEL
ECONOMY.— The Department of Transporation in collaboration with the
Environmental Protection Agency, is required to update the chart located at Title 26,
United States Code, section 30B, section (b)(2)(B) for current model year.
(a) Upon the calculation of new figures, the Secretary of
Transportation and the Director of the Enviromental Protection Agency shall
issue a joint order to provide such figures.
(b) The Secretary and the Director shall be required to repeat the
process outlined in this section for vehicles in the model year 2025, and
continue to do so every five years.

36
SECTION 403: REMOVING OUTDATED INFORMATION RELATING TO
VEHICLE AGE.— All references to the model year 2002 shall be struck, and
replaced with the most recent model year that has had information provided by the
Secretary and Director named in section 402.
(a) The information described in this section shall be updated in line
with §402(b) of this Act.
SECTION 404: REPEAL.— Title 26, United States Code, is amended by striking—
(a) subsection (f) of section 30B in its entirety.
(b) subsection (e) in section 30D in its entirety.
SECTION 405: REVISIONS.— Title 26, United States Code, is amended by
striking—
(a) “$100,000” in section 30C, and replacing it with “$120,000”;
(b) “$1,000” in section 30C, and replacing it with “$2,000”;
(c) all instances of “qualified plug-in electric drive motor vehicle” in
section 30D, and replacing with “clean vehicle”.
SEC 4. FUNDING.
There is authorized to be appropriated $720,000,000 annually, indexed to inflation
for the provisions of this bill until 2024, upon which $820,000,000 is authorized to be
appropriated until 2025, upon which $450,000,000 is authorized to be appropriated
until 2033 with requisite adjustments for inflation, upon which an amount
equivalent to $100,000,000 dollars in 2023 shall be authorized to be appropriated
annually, provided:
(a) not less than $60,000,000 for the fiscal year 2023, with the appropriate
amount indexed for inflation for the following five fiscal years to carry out the
provisions of 42 USC §13236;
(b) not less than $55,000,000 for the fiscal year 2023, with the appropriate
amount indexed for inflation for the following five fiscal years to carry out the
provisions of 42 USC §13239;

37
(c) $180,000,000 for the fiscal year of 2023 and the following five years
indexed to inflation, and $220,000,000 for the fiscal year of 2028 and the
following five years indexed to inflation to carry out programs in line with 42
USC §13471;
(d) $100,000,000, indexed to inflation and minus any remaining funds from
the previous fiscal year to support the program authorized by section 109;
(e) $225,000,000 for the fiscal year 2023 to support the program reauthorized
by section 207;
(f) $325,000,000 for the fiscal year 2024 to support the program reauthorized
by section 207; and,
(g) $100,000,000 for the fiscal year 2023 through the end of the fiscal year of
2033, indexed to inflation to support the program established by section 302.
Any unused funds shall be immediately returned back to the Treasury of the United
States beyond what is authorized by this Act.
SEC 5. SUPREMACY.
For the purposes of enacting this Act, any laws in conflict with this Act shall be
immediately rescinded and rendered null and void.
SEC 6. SEVERABILITY.
If any provision of this Act, or any amendment made by this Act, or the application
of such provision to any person, entity, government, or circumstance, is held to be
unconstitutional, the remainder of this Act, or any amendment made thereby, or the
application of such provision to all other persons, entities, governments, or
circumstances, shall not be affected thereby.
SEC 7. EFFECTIVE DATE.
This act shall come into force immediately upon approval within the process
described by Article I, §7 of the Constitution of the United States.

38
Meta notes:
— Section 101 reinstates repealed portions of the Energy Security Act of 1980,
thereby repealing section 1606 of the Energy Policy Act of 1992, with
additional conforming amendments to bring the bill into date.
— Sections 401, 404(b), and 405(c) canonize elements that exist in the present
United States Code; such edits were the result of sections 13401 and 13402 of
the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022.