- 1 -
173rd
CONGRESS
S.7
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
JANUARY 30, 2024
Introduced by Sen. Pluribus, for themself, Sen. Harris-Charest, and Senator
Emperio.
A BILL
ToestablishtheGreatLakesMassMarkingProgram, andfor otherpurposes.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. Short Title
(a) This Act may be cited as the “Great Lakes Mass Marking Program Act of
2024.”
SEC.2.FINDINGS.
Congress finds that—
(1) the Great Lakes have experienced rapid changes in recent years
due to—
(A) the introduction of multiple aquatic invasive species;
(B) alterations in the food web; and

- 2 -
(C) decreases in the abundance of prey species;
(2) due to rapid biological change in the Great Lakes, the Great Lakes
need a collaborative, science-based program to assist in making
management actions regarding fish stocking rates, the rehabilitation of
important fish species, and habitat restoration;
(3) the states of Lincoln, Olympia, Frontier, and Indian Tribes in those
States, working through the Council of Lake Committees of the Great
Lakes Fishery Commission, have identified that mass marking is—
(A) a precise tool to keep hatchery-produced fish in balance with
wild fish; and
(B) essential to achieving fishery management and research
objectives through producing a better understanding of—
(i) the quantity of hatchery produced fish compared to wild
fish in the Great Lakes;
(ii) the effectiveness of hatchery operations; and
(iii) the effectiveness of fishery management actions;
(4) the mass marking program of the United States Fish and Wildlife
Service in the Great Lakes—
(A) was initiated in 2010 on a limited scale;
(B) annually tags approximately 9,000,000 to 11,000,000 of the
hatchery-produced fish stocked in the Great Lakes;

- 3 -
(C) is a basinwide cooperative effort among the United States Fish
and Wildlife Service, Indian Tribes, and State management agencies;
and
(D) produces data used by State and Tribal fish management
agencies to make management decisions regarding Great Lakes
fisheries;
(5) annually, Federal, State, and Tribal agencies stock approximately
21,000,000 hatchery-produced fish in the Great Lakes to support—
(A) native species recovery; and
(B) recreational and commercial fishing;
(6) mass marking of hatchery-produced fish, using automated
technology, is an efficient method of implementing a collaborative,
science-based fishery program; and
(7) the Great Lakes are an important and valued resource that—
(A) supports a robust regional economy valued at more than
$7,000,000,000; and
(B) provides stability to the economy of the United States.
SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) DIRECTOR.—The term “Director” means the Director of the United
States Fish and Wildlife Service.

- 4 -
(2) PROGRAM.—The term “Program” means the Great Lakes Mass
Marking Program established by section 4(a).
SEC. 4. GREAT LAKES MASS MARKING PROGRAM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—To assist in determining the effectiveness of hatchery
operations and fisheries management actions and to support Great Lakes
fisheries, there is established within the United States Fish and Wildlife
Service a program for the mass marking of hatchery-produced fish in the Great
Lakes basin, to be known as the “Great Lakes Mass Marking Program”.
(b) AUTHORIZED ACTIONS.—In carrying out the Program, the Director may—
(1) purchase capital and expendable equipment, fish tags, and other
items necessary to support and carry out tagging and tag recovery
operations, including data processing and data dissemination relating to
those operations; and
(2) hire additional personnel, as necessary.
(c) REQUIRED COLLABORATION.—In carrying out the Program, the Director
shall collaborate with applicable Federal, State, and Tribal fish management
agencies, the Council of Lake Committees of the Great Lakes Fishery
Commission, and signatories to the Joint Strategic Plan for Management of
Great Lakes Fisheries.
(d) AVAILABILITY OF DATA.—The Director shall make the data collected under
the Program available to applicable Federal, State, and Tribal fish management
agencies—
(1) to increase the understanding of the outcomes of management
action;

- 5 -
(2) to assist in meeting the restoration objectives of the Great Lakes,
including the fish community objectives and fish management plans
described in the Joint Strategic Plan for Management of Great Lakes
Fisheries;
(3) to assist in balancing predators and prey;
(4) to support and improve the economic status of Tribal, recreational,
and commercial fisheries; and
(5) to assist in evaluating the effectiveness of habitat restoration efforts
in the Great Lakes.
SEC.5.AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
There isauthorizedtobe appropriatedtocarry outtheProgram $5,000,000for eachof fiscal
months February2024through February2025.