- 1 -
177
th CONGRESS
S.13
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
JUNE 4, 2024
Introduced by Sen. Pluribus, Sen. Toward, Sen. Wolf, Sen. Sun
A BILL
To provide supplemental appropriations for humanitarian aid to the Republic of
Haiti, and for other purposes.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress assembled,
Department of State
Administration Of Foreign Affairs
United States Agency for for International Development
For an additional amount for “United States Agency for International
Development”, $150,000,000, to remain available until August-October fiscal
month period 2024, of which that $150,000,000 shall be for United States Aid for
International Development Agency for responding to the situation humanitarian
mission in Haiti and supporting the humanitarian mission of Operation Resolute
Democracy:Provided, That such amount is designated by Congress as an
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That

- 2 -
such amount shall be available only if the President designates such amount as
an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A).
General Provisions—This Act
SEC. 1. Each amount appropriated or made available by this Act is in
addition to amounts otherwise appropriated for the fiscal periods involved.
SEC. 2. Unless otherwise provided for by this Act, the additional amounts
appropriated by this Act to appropriations accounts shall be available under the
authorities and conditions applicable to such appropriations accounts until the
end of fiscal month period August-October 2024.
SEC. 3. None of the amounts appropriated or otherwise made available by this
Act may be obligated or expended for any operation or program other than
responding to the situation in Haiti and in support of Operation Resolute
Democracy, Haiti, or UN sanctioned mission in Haiti involving the United
States.
SEC. 4. The Inspector General of the United States Agency for International
Development will submit a report to Congress at the conclusion of this funding
within 60 days detailing how these appropriations have been spent.
SEC. 5. This Act may be cited as the Haiti U.S AID Supplemental
Appropriations Act of 2024.