- 1 -
175th
CONGRESS
S.3
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
MARCH 16, 2024
Introduced by Mr. Pluribus (On behalf of the Charest-Harris administration), Mr.
Pickle Hersey,
IN THE HOUSE: Mr. Marley, Mr. Tempestas,
A BILL
To provide for emergency supplemental appropriations to aid in the United
States’ Operation Resolute Democracy in the Republic of Haiti, ending the fiscal
month period June-August, 2024.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress assembled,
Title I
Supplemental appropriations for Resolute Democracy, Haiti
Department of Defense
Operation and maintenance
Operation and maintenance, Defense-Wide

- 2 -
For an additional amount for “Operation and Maintenance, Defense-wide”, $190,000,000 to
remain available until the end of the June-August 2024 fiscal month period, to respond to the
situation in Haiti for support for Operation Resolute Democracyand for related expenses:
Provided, That amounts made available under this heading shall be available for transfer to
accounts under the headings “Operation and Maintenance”, “Procurement”, for replacement,
through new procurement or repair of existing unserviceable equipment, of defense articles
from the stocks of the Department of Defense, and for reimbursement for defense services of
the Department of Defense and military education and training, provided to or identified for
provision to Operation Resolute Democracy in Haiti or to foreign countries that have
provided support to Operation Resolute Democracy in Haiti, at the request of the United
States: Provided further, That amounts made available under this heading may also be
transferred to accounts under the heading “Procurement” for expansion of public and private
plants, including the land necessary therefor, and procurement and installation of equipment,
appliances, and machine tools in such plants, for the purpose of increasing production of
critical munitions: Provided further, That amounts made available under this heading may
also be transferred to accounts under the heading “Procurement” for the acquisition of critical
defense articles: Provided further, That funds transferred pursuant to a transfer authority
provided under this heading shall be merged with and available for the same purposes and for
the same time period as the appropriations to which the funds are transferred: Provided
further, That the Secretary of Defense shall notify the congressional defense committees of
the details of such transfers not less than 15 days before any such transfer: Provided further,
That upon a determination that all or part of the funds transferred from this appropriation are
not necessary for the purposes provided under this heading, such amounts may be transferred
back and merged with this appropriation: Provided further, That amounts may be transferred
between appropriations made under this heading: Provided further, That any transfer
authority provided under this heading is in addition to any other transfer authority provided
by law: Provided further, That such amount in this paragraph is designated by Congress as an
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That such amounts

- 3 -
shall be available only if the President designates such amount as an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A).
Procurement
Procurement, Defense-Wide
For an additional amount for “Procurement, Defense-Wide”, $170,000,000, to remain
available until June-August fiscal month period, to respond to the situation in Haiti and to
support Operation Resolute Democracy and for related expenses: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as
amended: Provided further, That such amount shall be available only if the President
designates such amount as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A).
Defense Production Act Purchases
For an additional amount for Defense Production Act Purchases, $50,000,000, to remain
available until expended, for activities by the Department of Defense pursuant to sections
108, 301, 302, and 303 of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 4518, 4531, 4532,
and 4533): Provided, That such amounts shall be obligated and expended by the Secretary of
Defense as if delegated the necessary authorities conferred by the Defense Production Act of
1950: Provided further, That such amount is designated by Congress as an emergency
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That such amount shall be available only
if the President designates such amount as an emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A).
Department of State

- 4 -
Administration Of Foreign Affairs
Diplomatic programs
For an additional amount for “Diplomatic programs”, $245,000,000, to remain available until
June-August fiscal period 2024, of which $150,000,000 shall be for United States Aid for
International Development Agency for responding to the situation in Haiti and supporting
Operation Resolute Democracy, and of which $80,000,000 shall be available State
Department-Wide until expended for responding to the situation in Haiti and supporting
Operation Resolute Democracy:Provided, That such amount is designated by Congress as an
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That such amount
shall be available only if the President designates such amount as an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A).
General Provisions—This Act
SEC. 1. Each amount appropriated or made available by this Act is in addition to
amounts otherwise appropriated for the fiscal periods involved.
SEC. 2. Unless otherwise provided for by this Act, the additional amounts appropriated by
this Act to appropriations accounts shall be available under the authorities and conditions
applicable to such appropriations accounts until the end of fiscal month period June-August
2024.
SEC. 3. None of the amounts appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act may be
obligated or expended—

- 5 -
1. For any operation or program other than responding to the situation in Haiti and in
support of Operation Resolute Democracy, Haiti, or UN sanctioned mission in Haiti
involving the United States;
SEC. 4. There is established the Office of the Special Inspector General for Haiti. Operation
Resolute Democracy Assistance for the following:
1. To provide for the independent and objective conduct and supervision of audits and
investigations relating to the programs and operations funded with amounts
appropriated or otherwise made available within this Act for Operation Resolute
Democracy in Haiti.
2. To provide for the independent and objective leadership and coordination of, and
recommendations on, policies designed to prevent and detect waste, fraud, and abuse
in such programs and operations described in paragraph (1).
3. To provide for an independent and objective means of keeping the Secretary of State,
the Secretary of Defense, and Congress fully and currently informed about problems
and deficiencies relating to the administration of such programs and operations and
the necessity for and progress on corrective action.
SEC. 5. This Act may be cited as the Haiti Resolute Democracy Emergency Supplemental
Appropriations Act of 2024.