"...letusplacethere,carvedhigh,asclosetoheavenaswecan,thewordsofourleaders,theirfaces,toshowposterity
whatmannerofmentheywere.Thenbreatheaprayerthattheserecordswillendureuntilthewindandrain
aloneshallwearthemaway."
159THCONGRESS
1ST SESSION
H.R. 12
TofinishconstructionoftheMountRushmoreHallofRecords,asenvisionedbyGutzonBorglum.
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
NOVEMBER, 22nd, 2022
Mr. KEAN,(Co-Sponsored byMr. BROWN,Ms. HAALAND)
introduced the following bill;
AN ACT
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the “Hall of Records Act”.

SEC. 2. ENACTMENT.
This Act shall come into force immediately upon passage, unless otherwise specified.
SEC. 3. SEVERABILITY.
If any provision of this Act, or the application thereof, is held invalid, the validity of the
remainder of this Act and the application of such provision to other persons and
circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
Furthermore, any piece of law that contradicts or violates the provisions in this Act, shall
be declared null and void.
SEC. 4. CONSTRUCTION
(a)IN GENERAL.—There are authorized to be appropriated, and there are
appropriated, out of any funds not otherwise appropriated— $10,500,000 to carry
out the provisions of this section.
(b) The Department of Interior, in collaboration with the Natural Park Service shall
create the “Hall of Records Fund”, which Americans and State/Local governments
could contribute to.
(c) Using the $10,500,000 appropriated in this Section, and contributions/donations
from the Hall of Records Fund, the National Park Service and Department of
Interior is federally authorized and directed to undergo the full completion of the
Hall of Records with high wages for construction staff and satisfactory safety
standards.
(d) For guidance and direction, the NPS/Department of Interior may look to:
GUIDANCE OF CONSTRUCTION .

SEC. 5. DESIGNATION
(a) IN GENERAL.—The mountain at Mount Rushmore, South Dakota, located at N 43°
53.559′ W 103° 28.246′, shall be known and designated as “Mount Rushmore”.
(b) Any reference in any law, map, regulation, order, document, paper, or other record
of the United States to the mountain and area described in subsection (a) shall be
deemed to be a reference to “Mount Rushmore”.
SEC. 6. CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL
(a) AWARD AUTHORIZED.—For his contributions to American art and culture, as well
as his extraordinary dedication to the construction of Mount Rushmore, the
Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the
Senate shall make appropriate arrangements for the posthumous award, on behalf
of the Congress, of a single gold medal of appropriate design in commemoration of
Sculptor Gutzon Borglum in recognition of his contributions to the Nation.
(b) For the purposes of the award referred to in subsection (a), the Secretary of the
Treasury (hereafter in this Act referred to as the “Secretary”) shall strike the gold
medal with the emblems, devices, and inscriptions of Mount Rushmore and
Borglum’s other sculpture work.
(c) Following the award of the gold medal under subsection (a), the gold medal shall
be given to “Sculptor's Studio” a historical museum located on the grounds of
Mount Rushmore, where it shall be displayed as appropriate.
(d) The Secretary may strike and sell souvenir duplicates of the gold medal struck
pursuant to subsection b, at a price sufficient to cover the cost thereof, including
labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, and overhead expenses.
THOMASJ.KEAN,
REPRESENTATIVEFOROL-4