136 TH CONGRESS
1ST SESSION
S. 2
—————————————
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
DECEMBER 17, 2020
Mr. GRAVES, (for himself, Mr. KOAY), and amended by
Mr. Ricca
—————————————
A BILL
To revise the congressional reporting requirements of the
United States Intelligence Community to better fit the current
structure of Congress.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the

United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE
(a) SHORT TITLE — This Act may be cited as the
“Intelligence Oversight Act of 2020”.
SECTION 2. FINDINGS
Congress finds that —
(a) Congressional oversight is essential to ensure that the intelligence
agencies of the United States remain in line with the law.
(b) Congress may, from time to time, require classified information from
the Intelligence Community or elsewhere for the purposes of
legislation.
(c) The current reporting requirements are premised upon the
functioning of intelligence committees in the House and the Senate,
which no longer exist.
(d) Current laws on the treatment of classified information renders it
difficult for the Senate, a body the size of a committee, from hearing
classified information as a whole body.
(e) Current laws on the treatment of classified information makes it
difficult for the whole House to hear classified information in a
session of the Committee of the Whole on the State of the Union.
(f) It is therefore altogether proper for Congress to revise the reporting
requirements and conditions of disclosure of private information of
the Intelligence Community.
SECTION 3. SEVERABILITY
(a) SEVERABILITY — Should any provision of this Act be
deemed invalid or unconstitutional for any reason in a

court with relevant jurisdiction, the rest of the Act, and
the application of the remaining provisions, shall not be
affected.
SECTION 4. 18 USC § 798
(a) 18 USC § 798(c) shall read as follows —
(c)Nothing in this section shall prohibit the furnishing, upon lawful
demand, of information to the Senate or the House of
Representatives of the United States of America, to any regularly
constituted committee thereof, or to any joint committee thereof. For
the purposes of this section, a lawful subpoena from any of these
entities shall be a lawful demand of information by that entity,
provided that no information which the Executive is entitled to
withhold shall be involuntarily divulged.
(b) No person shall be convicted of any crime under 18 USC § 798 if
their actions are lawful under 18 USC § 798 as amended by this
statute, notwithstanding the fact that their actions were committed
prior to the enactment of this statute.
SECTION 5. PUB. L. 80-253 (NATIONAL SECURITY ACT OF 1947)
(a) Subsection 7 of Section 3 of Pub. L. 80-253 shall read as follows —
“(7)The term “congressional intelligence committees” means—
(A)the Senate Special Committee on Foreign Affairs and the State;
and
(B)the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security of the House of

Representatives.”
SECTION 5. ENACTMENT
(a) ENACTMENT — The provisions of this Act shall come into
force immediately after passage.