S. 6
To withdraw American troops from Iraq.
⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
OCTOBER 21, 2020
Mr. KOAY of Maryland (for himself, Mr. LOULOU, Mr. ROMERIO)
introduced the following bill, which was subsequently referred to the
Senate;
⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯
A BILL
To withdraw American troops from Iraq.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SEC. 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the “Iraqi Withdrawal Act”.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
For the purposes of this Act, the term—
(a) “Department” means the Department of Defense;
(b) “Secretary” means the Secretary of Defense;
(c) “State Secretary” means the Secretary of State;
(d) “NATO” means the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation;
(e) “Iraqi civilians” means all civilians under territories internationally recognized as the
Republic of Iraq, including those administered by the Kurdish Peshmerga;

(f) “Military installation” means any infrastructure administered by the Department of
Defense, including Air Bases, Naval Bases, Military Bases, and Military Training Sites;
(g) “Iraq” means the territories internationally recognized as the Republic of Iraq, including
those currently administered by the Kurdish Peshmerga;
(h) “Iraqi Kurdistan” means the territories currently administered by the Kurdish Peshmerga,
but not including territories administered by the United States recognised Republic of
Kurdistan in Northeastern Syria;
(i) “Israel-Palestine” means all the territories part of either Israel or Palestine; and
(j) “Islamic State” means the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant and Tanzim Qaidat.
SEC. 3. FINDINGS.
Congress finds that —
(a) The United States has been deeply involved in the current undeclaredcivil conflict in Iraq
between the Iraqi Armed Forces and the Kurdish Peshmerga since the 2003 invasion of
Iraq to topple the regime of Saddam Hussein.
(b) The United States has been deeply involved in the current undeclared interstate conflict
between the Iraqi Armed Forces, the Kurdish Peshmerga, and the Republic of Turkey
since the 2014 authorizations to Iraq to fight the Islamic State.
(c) The Islamic State no longer holds significant territory in Iraq, nor is it currently in the
position to resurge into contention in any significant territory.
(d) The United States currently administers multiple military installations in land currently
governed by Iraqi Kurdistan.
(e) The United States has been privy to the harsh treatment of civilians on behalf of the Iraqi
government since 2014 throughout Iraq’s period of political instability and infighting.
(f) The United States military involvement in Iraq has directly led to the deaths of civilians,
and continues in every concurrent year in which significant United States military
involvement is sustained and reauthorized.
(g) The United States military involvement in Iraq has primarily been used in ways not
benefitting United States interests, and to the detriment of American international
relationships around the world, most importantly with our allies in the NATO alliance.

(h) The United States position is currently untenable and must be corrected for the sake of
not only American national security, but also the security of Iraqi civilians.
SEC. 4. AUTHORIZATION FOR A WITHDRAWAL.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Congress urges the Secretary to withdraw the 5,200 active-duty troops
approved by Congress to prevent the rise of the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria.
(b) INITIAL DECREASE.—Congress recommends that the number of active-duty troops in
Iraq shall be no more than 3,200 by the mark of six months following the enactment of
this piece of legislation.
(i) Congress recommends that 500 troops are to be withdrawn from Iraq per 3-week
period.
(c) CONTINUED DECREASE.—The number of active-duty troops in Iraq is recommended to
be no more than that which it is determined by the Department to be sufficientto maintain
the military bases continually reauthorized in Iraq by the mark of one year following the
enactment of this piece of legislation.
(i) This withdrawal shall see no less than one half of the troops in Iraq at the
beginning of this withdrawal period withdrawn per quarter, with all troops
withdrawn by the end of one year.
(ii) The Department is to evaluate and oversee that sole troops remaining in Iraq
following the mark of one year listed in this Act shall be reserve troops and
maintenance staff required for the upkeep of United State military bases.
SEC. 5. AUTHORIZATION FOR DECOMMISSION OF MILITARY BASES
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Department, with no further boots on the ground required toexecute
active-duty operations, shall be recommended by Congress to waive statutory
requirements for the disestablishment of multiple military installations in Iraq.
(b) On account of the following installations being in territory administered by Iraqi
Kurdistan, an entity with which the Department has no formal military convention, the
incumbent Secretary is recommended by Congress in the strongest terms possible to:
(i) Decommission the Harir Air Base;
(ii) Decommission the Qayara Air Base;

(iii) Decommission the Erbil International Airport Military Base; and
(iv) Decommission the Kirkuk 1 Military Base.
(c) On account of the following installations being in territory which, under the provisions of
this Act, would no longer have adequate personnel to maintain, the incumbent Secretary
is recommended by Congress in the strongest terms possible to:
(i) Decommission the Balad Air Base;
(ii) Decommission the Ain Al-Asad Air Base; and
(iii) Decommission the Habbaniyah Air Base.
(d) Congress makes no further recommendation to the Secretary or Department at this time
as to the stature of the military installations at Camp Victory and Al-Taji on account of
their proximity to the seat of the Iraq government and Congress’ confidence in adequate
personnel required for maintenance.
SEC. 6. DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS WITH IRAQI KURDISTAN.
(a) DIPLOMATIC COMMITMENT.— The United States shall not commit to establishing
formal diplomatic relations with Iraqi Kurdistan at this time.
(i) The United States shall not commit to recognizing the formality of the sovereignty
of Kurdistan at this time.
(ii) The United States shall not commit to requesting United Nationsmembership for
Iraqi Kurdistan at this time.
(b) RESPECT FOR SOVEREIGNTY.— The Department shall commit to refraining from the
establishment or recommission of further military installations in territories currently
administered by Iraqi Kurdistan until a formal military contract has been negotiated upon
and ratified by the United States Government.
SEC. 7. DIPLOMATIC APPROACH TO THE IRAQI CIVIL WAR.
(a) The policy of the United States is now, in compliance with the provisions ofthis Act—
(i) Formal neutrality in the undeclared Iraqi civil conflict between the Iraqi Armed
Forces and the Kurdish Peshmerga.
(ii) Formal state apology for United States involvement in the undeclared Iraqi civil
conflict between the Iraqi Armed Forces and the Kurdish Peshmerga.

(iii) Formal neutrality in the undeclared Iraqi interstate conflict between the Iraqi
Armed Forces, the Kurdish Peshmerga, and the Republic of Turkey.
(iv) Formal state apology for United States involvement in the undeclared Iraqi
interstate conflict between the Iraqi Armed Forces, the Kurdish Peshmerga, and
the Republic of Turkey.
(v) Condemnation of all acts of violence and violations of international conduct
committed by the Iraqi Armed forces against civilians of Iraq, regardless of
religious or ethnic affiliation.
(vi) Willingness to provide solely peacekeeping and humanitarian assistance to Iraq
with Iraqi and Kurdish civilians in mind at the sole prerogative of
assistance-requesting the seat of Iraqi government.
(b) It shall be the responsibility of the State Secretary to enact the above diplomatic
recommendations in compliance of the provisions of this Act.
SEC. 8. SEVERABILITY.
(a) CONSTITUTIONALITY.—Should any clause or portion of this Act be declared
unconstitutional, the rest of the Act shall remain in full effect to the maximum extent
allowed by the Constitution, excepting only the extension of the authorization to deploy,
which shall be null and without further effect if the Congressional recommendations
contained within this Act are all declared unconstitutional.
SEC. 9. ENACTMENT.
EFFECTIVE DATE.— The provisions of this Act shall come into force immediately upon
passage.
___________________________________________________________________________
President of the United States of America