3/16/23
163rd CONGRESS
1ST SESSION
H.R.4.
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
March 16, 2022
Representative Ms. Natalia Poklonskaya of Olympia (for herself,
Senator Mr. Sullivan of Olympia;) introduced the following bill;
A BILL
To post humorously award a Congressional Gold Medal to former Rear Admiral and former
Senator Jeremiah Andrew Denton Jr., in recognition of his extraordinary contributions and
commitment to his nation while he served in the armed forces, his upholding of the highest
traditions of the Naval Service and United States Armed Forces, and his immense contribution to
this nation as a Senator for the State of Alabama.
Be it enacted by the Senate and the House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress Assembled,
SEC. 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the “Jeremiah Denton Congressional Gold Medal Act of 2022”
SEC. 2. SHORT TITLE.
Congress finds that. —
(a) Rear Admiral Jeremiah Denton was a Naval aviator and served in the United States Navy
for 34 Years. In this time he served in various ships and carriers and contributed
immensely as a test pilot, flight instructor, and commanding officer of an attack squadron
flying the A-6 Intruder;
(b) Denton was born July 15, 1924, in Mobile, Alabama, the oldest of three brothers, and the
son of Jeremiah Sr. and Irene (Steele) Denton. He attended McGill–Toolen Catholic High
School (Class of 1942) and Spring Hill College in Mobile, Alabama;
(c) In June 1943, he entered the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland, and
graduated three years later in the accelerated Class of 1947 on June 5, 1946, with a
Bachelor of Science degree;
(d) In 1957, he was credited with revolutionizing naval strategy and tactics for nuclear war as
the architect of the "Haystack Concept.” This strategy called for concealing aircraft

3/16/23
carriers from radar by intermingling with commercial shipping and avoiding formations
suggestive of a naval fleet. The strategy was simulated in maneuvers and demonstrated
effectiveness, allowing two aircraft carrier fleets thirty-five simulated atomic launches
before aggressor aircraft and submarines could repel them. He went on to serve on the
staff of the Commander, U.S. Sixth Fleet at the rank of Commander (O-5) as Fleet Air
Defense Officer;
(e) Denton was awarded the prestigious President’s Award for his thesis on international
affairs;
(f) In 1965 he became the prospecting commanding officer of his squadron;
(g) On July 18, 1965, Commander Denton was piloting his A-6A Intruder jet while leading a
twenty-eight aircraft bombing mission over North Vietnam and was forced to eject due to
a bomb exploding preemptively, He and his Navigator were both captured and taken
Prisoners of War;
(h) Denton followed the code of conduct in the best traditions of the United States navy by
assuming command in makeshift prison camps and not cooperating with the enemy even
after facing grueling conditions which motivated his fellow soldiers;
(i) During the Hanoi March in July of 1996 he notably ordered his fellow aviators to keep
their heads up after the Vietnamese asked them to bow and walk with their heads down.
He reportedly said “You are Americans. So walk with your heads up like Americans do”;
(j) In 1966 in a televised press interview with a Japanese reporter, he sent a distress message
home, without thinking of future repercussions to help his fellow aviators. Through
expert coordination he answered questions being asked to him while blinking out the
words T O R T U R E through his eyes in Morse code. This helped the U.S. Office of
Naval Intelligence confirm that American POWS were indeed being tortured in Vietnam.;
(k) When asked about his views on the wars he replied "I don't know what is happening, but
whatever the position of my government is, I support it fully. Whatever the position of
my government, I believe in it, yes, sir. I am a member of that government, and it is my
job to support it, and I will as long as I live." In a clear blowback to Vietnamese
propaganda efforts;
(l) 2) Denton was sent to various prison camps including the notorious Hanoi Hilton, the
Zoo and Alcatraz. He heroically resisted cruelties and continued to promulgate resistance
policy and detailed instructions.;
(m) He was a member of the so-called Alcatraz gang. He was thrown in a 3-by-9-foot cell
where he spent most of his time in leg cuffs. He was one of the leaders of the resistance
group against the Vietnamese. He faced grueling and torturous conditions but abided by
the code of conduct to the best of his abilities. Displaying extraordinary skill, fearless
dedication to duty, and resourcefulness, he reflected great credit upon himself and his
country. He inspired other prisoners to resist the Vietnamese. He was also one of the
leaders of the 4th allied POW wing. He continued serving even after his repatriation to
the United States;
(n) He was awarded various medals for his courage, including the Navy Cross; and
(o) He was elected to the Senate of the United States in 1981, where he continued to
honorably serve this nation.

3/16/23
SEC. 3. CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL.
(a) PRESENTATION AUTHORIZED. — The Speaker of the House of Representatives and
the President Pro-Tempore of the Senate shall make the appropriate arrangements for the
posthumous presentation, on behalf of the Congress, of a gold medal of appropriate
design in commemoration of Senator Jeremiah Andrew Denton Jr., in recognition of his
achievements and contributions to American Culture.
(b) DESIGN AND STRIKING. — For purposes of the presentation referred to in subsection
(a), the Secretary of the Treasury (referred to in this Act as the “Secretary”) shall strike a
gold medal with suitable emblems, devices, and inscriptions, to be determined by the
Secretary.
(c) MUSEUM. —
a. IN GENERAL. — Following the award of the gold medal in honor of Jeremiah
Andrew Denton Jr. subsection (a), the gold medal shall be given to the National
Museum of the United States Navy, where it shall be made available for display
as appropriate and made available for research.
b. SENSE OF CONGRESS. — It is the sense of Congress that the National Museum
of the United States Navy shall make the gold medal received under paragraph (a)
available for display, particularly at. —
i. Appropriate locations associated with Senator Jeremiah Andrew Denton
Jr.
SEC. 4. DUPLICATE MEDALS.
Under such regulations as the Secretary may prescribe, the Secretary may strike and sell
duplicates in bronze of the gold medal struck under section 3 at a price sufficient to cover the
cost of the medals, including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, and overhead expenses.
SEC. 5. NATIONAL MEDALS.
1) National Medals. — Medals struck under this Act are national medals for purposes of chapter
51 of title 31, United States Code.
2) Numismatic Items. — For purposes of section 5134 of title 31, United States Code, all
medals struck under this Act shall be considered Numismatic Items.
SEC. 6. AUTHORITY TO USE FUND AMOUNTS; PROCEEDS OF SALE.
1) Authority To Use Fund Amounts. — There is authorized to be charged against the United
States Mint Public Enterprise Fund such amounts as may be necessary to pay for the costs of
the medals struck under this Act.

3/16/23
2) Proceeds Of Sale. — Amounts received from the sale of duplicate bronze medals authorized
under section 4 shall be deposited into the United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund.