180th
CONGRESS
1st Session
S. 4
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
August 13, 2024
Introduced by Senator Norman Nord on behalf of the Sun Administration
A BILL
To enhance the capabilities of American National Security and Defense
efforts, to counter the threat imposed by Pax Mortis, to declare a national
emergency regarding that threat, and other measures.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
of America in Congress assembled,
SEC. 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as –
(a) The “Legislation for Organizing Comprehensive and Key Homeland
Action and Response to Terrorism Act of 2024”;
(b) The “L.O.C.K.H.A.R.T. Act of 2024”; or
SEC 2. GENERAL CONGRESSIONAL FINDINGS.
The Congress of the United States finds that —
(a) There exists a significant and existential threat to the national security,
welfare, and safety, arising from the existence and operation of the terrorist
organization known as Pax Mortis, evidenced by their attacks both prior and
after, but especially on August 1st, 2024, when their attacks on the United
States Capitol and D.C. Metro System resulted in the deaths of 2,137
citizens, injury in 4,783, the attempted assassination of a United States
Senator and aggravated assault upon a sitting United States Congressman,
Daniel Lockhart, after whom this bill is named.
(b) In regards to the scope of the threat posed by Pax Mortis, said threat
comprises not only the organization itself, but also affiliated entities -

including those hostile elements present in foreign nations, and together with
Pax Mortis constitute a greater threat to the national security, welfare, and
safety than Pax Mortis alone.
(c) That it is the responsibility of the United States Government to protect
the aforementioned security, welfare, and safety of the nation and its people,
to “provide for the common Defense and general welfare of the United
States”, and therefore by extension, the responsibility of the United States
Congress to support, authorize, direct, and legislate for those measures,
actions, decisions, and laws which may be necessary for that protection of
those aforementioned principles of security, welfare, safety, and the defense,
of the American people.
(d) That this article of legislation, does support, authorize, direct, and
legislate for those measures, actions, decisions, and laws which may be
necessary for that protection, through the declaration of a National
Emergency in regards to Pax Mortis and therefore the supply of requisite
powers to those entities which may require them, amendments to existing
provisions and acts to further the security of the American people, and
several other means.
(e) That it is therefore in the interest of the responsibilities placed upon the
United States Congress, the measures within this act.
SEC 3. DEFINITIONS, IN THIS ACT.
In this act —
(a) The term “National Emergency” shall refer in all instances, with exception
of any instance wherein an alternative definition is given to the use of the
term, to the definition as used in the National Emergencies Act (Public Law
94-412);
(b) The term “Central Intelligence Agency” refers in all instances, with
exception of any instance wherein an alternative definition is given to the use
of the term, to the definition as used in the National Security Act of 1947
(Public Law 80-253), and the entity as provided for the Reinstate the CIA Act
(Public Law 179-3);
(c) The terms “executive agency” or “military department” refer in all
instances, with exception of any instance wherein an alternative definition is
given to the use of the term, to the definition as defined in sections 105 and
102 of title 5, United States Code, respectively;
(d) The term “President” refers in all instances, with exception of any
instance wherein an alternative definition is given to the use of the term, to
the President of the United States, as established in the Constitution;

(e) The term “NATO Defense Expenditure Threshold” shall refer in all
instances, with exception of any instance wherein an alternative definition is
given to the use of the term, to 2.0% of any given NATO member state’s gross
domestic product;
(f) the term “domestic terrorism” refers in all instances, with exception of any
instance wherein an alternative definition is given to the use of the term, to
the meaning given the term in section 2331 of title 18, United States Code;
(g) the term “uniformed services” refers in all instances, with exception of
any instance wherein an alternative definition is given to the use of the term,
to the meaning given the term in section 101(a) of title 10, United States
Code;
(h) the term “Domestic Terrorism Executive Committee” refers in all
instances, with exception of any instance wherein an alternative definition is
given to the use of the term, to the committee within the Department of
Justice, established in Section 115 of this act, tasked with assessing and
sharing information about ongoing domestic terrorism threats;
(i) The term ‘‘governing organization’’ refers in all instances, with exception of
any instance wherein an alternative definition is given to the use of the term,
to any national body separate from a foreign government that maintains
ultimate control over such government, including political parties that
exercise functions normally reserved for governments;
(j) The term “designated languages” refers in all instances, with exception of
any instance wherein an alternative definition is given to the use of the term,
to languages identified as critical languages by the Department of State’s
Critical Language Scholarship Program; and other languages as determined
by the board established pursuant to section 117, in consultation with the
Secretary of State.
(k) The term “incident” refers in all instances, with exception of any instance
wherein an alternative definition is given to the use of the term, to the
meaning given to it by Section 3552 of Title 44, United States Code.
(l) The term “information security” refers in all instances, with exception of
any instance wherein an alternative definition is given to the use of the term,
to the meaning given to it by Section 3552 of Title 44, United States Code.
(m) The term “cyber attacks and cyber campaigns of significant consequence”
refers in all instances, with exception of any instance wherein an alternative
definition is given to the use of the term, to any incident or series of incidents
that have the purpose or effect of—
(i) causing a significant disruption to the availability of a Federal
information system;

(ii) harming, or otherwise significantly compromising the provision
of service by, a computer or network of computers that support one
or more entities in a critical infrastructure sector;
(iii) significantly compromising the provision of services by one or
more entities in a critical infrastructure sector;
(iv) causing a significant misappropriation of funds or economic
resources, trade secrets, personal identifiers, or financial
information for commercial or competitive advantage or private
financial gain; or
(v) otherwise constituting a significant threat to the national
security, foreign policy, or economic health or financial stability of
the United States.
(n) The term “cybersecurity posture” refers in all instances, with
exception of any instance wherein an alternative definition is given to the
use of the term, to the ability to identify and protect, and detect, respond
to and recover from intrusions in information systems the compromise of
which could constitute a cyber attack or cyber campaign of significant
consequence.
SEC 4. TABLE OF CONTENTS.
The table of contents for this Act is as follows –
Sec1.ShortTitle.
Sec2.GeneralCongressionalFindings.
Sec3.Definitions,inthisAct.
Sec4.TableofContents.
TITLEI-ENHANCINGAMERICANNATIONALSECURITY,ANDNATIONALEMERGENCY
Sec101.NationalEmergencyDeclaration.
Sec102.EmploymentofTranslatorsbytheFederalBureauofInvestigation.
Sec103.CounterterrorismFund.
Sec104.AttorneyGeneral’sAuthoritytoPayRewardstoCombatPaxMortis.
Sec105.InteragencyTaskForceonAnti-Terrorism.
Sec106.ExpansionofNationalElectronicCrimeTaskForceInitiative.
Sec108.Anti-TerrorismContractingAuthorization.
Sec109.PromotionofPatriotism.
Sec110.PaxMortisAssetConfiscation.
Sec111.AmendmenttotheLaw.
Sec112.DevelopmentandSupportofCybersecurityForensicCapabilities.
Sec113.PreservingtheJROTC.
Sec114.PaxMortisVictimMemorialConstruction.

Sec115.DomesticTerrorismOfficesCreation.
Sec116.TrainingtoCombatDomesticTerrorism.
Sec117.IncorporationofanOpenTranslationCenter
Sec118.IncreasedFundingfortheTechnicalSupportCenterattheFederalBureauofInvestigation.
Sec119.ToestablishtheOfficeofCyberDirector.
TITLEII-ENHANCINGAMERICANCRISISRESPONSEANDFLEXIBILITY
Sec201.CongressionalFindings.
Sec202.RulesofConstruction.
Sec203.WashingtonMetroAreaTransitAuthority.
Sec204.NationalGuardFederalization.
Sec205.DepartmentalLineofSuccession.
Sec206.SmallBusinessDisasterRelief
Sec207.AmendmentsandRepeals.
Sec208.InclusionofServicesbyPhysicianAssistants,etc.inEmployeeCompensation
TITLEIV-GENERALLEGALSECTIONS,ANDMISCELLANEOUS
Sec401.Severability.
Sec402.Supremacy.
Sec403.EffectiveDate.
Sec404.RulesofConstruction.
TITLE I—ENHANCING AMERICAN NATIONAL
SECURITY, AND NATIONAL EMERGENCY
SEC. 101. NATIONAL EMERGENCY DECLARATION.
(a) Congress declares that a national emergency exists by reason of the
significant and existential threat to national security, welfare, and safety
delineated in Section 2(a) and (b) of this act.
(b) This national emergency shall continue until 180 days following the
enactment of this article, but may be terminated by Presidential
Proclamation by the President of the United States at any point before the
expiration of those 180 days.
SEC. 102. EMPLOYMENT OF TRANSLATORS BY THE FEDERAL BUREAU
OF INVESTIGATION
(a) The Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation is authorized to
expedite the employment of personnel as translators to support
counterterrorism investigations and operations without regard to applicable
Federal personnel requirements and limitations.

(b) The Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation shall establish such
security requirements as are necessary for the personnel employed as
translators under subsection (a).
SEC. 103. COUNTERTERRORISM FUND.
(a) There is hereby established in the Treasury of the United States a
separate fund to be known as the ‘‘Counterterrorism Fund’, amounts in which
shall remain available without fiscal year limitation –
(i) reestablishing the operational capability of an office or facility that
has been damaged or destroyed as the result of any domestic or
international terrorism incident;
(ii) providing support to counter, investigate, or prosecute domestic or
international terrorism, including, without limitation, paying rewards
in connection with these activities; and
(iii) conducting terrorism threat assessments of Federal agencies and
their facilities; and
(iv) to reimburse any department or agency of the Federal Government
for any costs incurred in connection with detaining any individuals
accused of acts of terrorism that violate the laws of the United States.
SEC. 104. ATTORNEY GENERAL’S AUTHORITY TO PAY REWARDS TO
COMBAT PAX MORTIS.
(a) Funds available to the Attorney General may be used for the payment of
rewards pursuant to public advertisements for assistance to the Department
of Justice to combat terrorism and defend the Nation against Pax Mortis, in
accordance with procedures and regulations established or issued by the
Attorney General.
(b) In making rewards under this Section 104(a) of this act —
(i) no such reward of $300,000 or more may be made or offered without
the personal approval of either the Attorney General or the President,
nor any reward more than $2,000,000 without the personal approval of
the President;
(ii) any executive agency or military department may provide the
Attorney General with funds for the payment of rewards; and
(iii) no such reward shall be subject to any per or aggregate reward
spending limitation established by law, unless that law expressly
refers to this section, and no reward paid pursuant to any such offer
shall count toward any such aggregate reward spending limitation.

SEC. 105. INTERAGENCY TASK FORCE ON ANTI-TERORRISM.
(a) There is hereby established an Interagency Task Force on Anti-Terrorism
to be chaired by the Secretary responsible for the Department of Homeland
Security, or his designee, and whose remaining members shall consist of the
following individuals, or their designees –
(i) The President of the United States;
(ii) The Secretary responsible for the Department of State;
(iii) The Secretary responsible for the Department of Defense;
(iv) The Secretary responsible for the Department of Justice;
(v) The Secretary responsible for the Department of the Treasury;
(vi) The Director of the Federal Bureau of Intelligence;
(vii) The Director of the Central Intelligence Agency;
(viii) The Director of the National Security Agency;
(ix) The Director of National Intelligence; and
(x) Any other individual deemed necessary through a majority vote
taken by the other members of the Interagency Task Force on
Anti-Terrorism.
(b) The Interagency Task Force on Anti-Terrorism’s mission statement shall
be: “To ensure the strategic coordination of all federal efforts aimed in the
name of countering the terrorist organization Pax Mortis, facilitate the rapid
and safe sharing of intelligence between different federal departments and
agencies in regards to countering the terrorist organization Pax Mortis.”
(c) The Interagency Task Force on Anti-Terrorism shall be abolished upon the
extermination of Pax Mortis as determined by the President of the United
States.
SEC. 106. EXPANSION OF NATIONAL ELECTRONIC CRIME TASK FORCE
INITIATIVE.
The Director of the United States Secret Service shall take appropriate
actions to develop a national network of electronic crime task forces, based on
the New York Electronic Crimes Task Force model, throughout the United
States, for the purpose of preventing, detecting, and investigating various
forms of electronic crimes, including potential terrorist attacks against
critical infrastructure and financial payment systems.
SEC. 107. ANTI-TERRORISM CONTRACTING AUTHORIZATION.
(a) The President, the Secretary responsible for the Department of Homeland
Security, the Director of the Federal Bureau of Intelligence, or the Central
Intelligence Agency, or their designees, may —

(i) enter into agreements or contracts with any Federal, State, or local
agency or private organization, including private research institutions,
on behalf of their respective agency, department, or branch, to —
(A) fund and research development of new technologies for
detecting and preventing terrorist activities, specifically in
relation to Pax Mortis, such as but not limited to, advanced
surveillance tools, biometric systems, and artificial intelligence
driven threat analysis.
(ii) award grants not exceeding $20,000,000 each to such federal, state,
or local agencies, private organizations, or research institutions, to the
end as established in Section 108(a)(i)(A) of this act;
(iii) maintain communication with those agencies and institutions
contracted to or given grants to avoid duplication of efforts, including
and necessitating but not limited to bi-annual updates on research
efforts and development; and that the President shall possess to sole
power to authorize renewals for the grants provided for in Section
108(a)(ii), and he shall review all updates before authorizing any
renewal for the grants provided for in Section 108(a)(ii).
(iv) there is authorized to be appropriated, in the next budget,
$80,000,000 to carry out this section; and such appropriation shall be
evenly split between new funds to be established in the Departments of
Homeland Security, the Federal Bureau of Intelligence, and the
Central Intelligence Agency, and the existing section entitled
“Executive Office of the President and Funds Appropriation”.
SEC. 108. PROMOTION OF PATRIOTISM.
(a) Chapter 63 of title 41, United States Code, is amended by adding at the
end the following new section:
“§ 6310. Requirement for agencies to buy domestically made United States
flags
“(a) Except as provided in subsections (b) through (d), funds appropriated
or otherwise available to an agency may not be used for the procurement of any
flag of the United States, unless such flag has been 100 percent manufactured
in the United States from articles, materials, or supplies that have been grown
or 100 percent produced or manufactured in the United States.
“(b) Subsection (a) does not apply to the extent that the head of the agency
concerned determines that satisfactory quality and sufficient quantity of a flag
described in such subsection cannot be procured as and when needed at United
States market prices.

“(c) Subsection (a) does not apply to the following:
“(i) Procurements by vessels in foreign waters.
“(ii) Procurements for resale purposes in any military commissary,
military exchange, or nonappropriated fund instrumentality operated by an
agency.
“(iii) Procurements for amounts less than the simplified acquisition
threshold.
“(d) The President may waive the requirement in subsection (a) if the
President determines a waiver is necessary to comply with any trade agreement
to which the United States is a party. Not later than 30 days after granting a
waiver under paragraph (1), the President shall publish a notice of the waiver
in the Federal Register.
“(e) Each manufacturer of a flag of the United States shall maintain
records related to such flags marketed by the manufacturer for a period of 5
years demonstrating that articles, materials and supplies used for the flags
have been grown or 100 percent produced or manufactured in the United
States. The records described in paragraph (1) shall be made available to an
agency upon request, at reasonable times and within reasonable limits and in a
reasonable manner, including allowing electronic access to such records.
“(f) In this section:
“(i)—The term ‘agency’ has the meaning given the term ‘executive
agency’ in section 102 of title 40.
“(ii) —The term ‘simplified acquisition threshold’ has the meaning
given that term in section 134.”.
(iii).—The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is amended
by adding at the end the following new item:
“6310.RequirementforagenciestobuydomesticallymadeUnitedStatesflags”.
SEC. 109. PAX MORTIS ASSET CONFISCATION.
(a) The President may confiscate, through instructions or licenses or in such
other manner as the President determines appropriate, funds of any person,
entity, or organization, affiliated, owned, or aids, Pax Mortis, that are subject
to the jurisdiction of the United States.
(b) All right, title, and interest in funds confiscated under paragraph (1) shall
vest in the Government of the United States, and be added to the fund known
as “Executive Office of the President and Funds Appropriation”, and may be
used at the discretion of the President, and will remain available until
expended.

SEC. 110. AMENDMENT TO THE LAW.
Section 4, subsection (a)-3, of Public Law 93-148 shall be amended to strike
“24” and replace it with “48”.
SEC. 111. DEVELOPMENT AND SUPPORT OF CYBERSECURITY
FORENSIC CAPABILITIES.
(a) The Attorney General shall establish such regional computer forensic
laboratories as the Attorney General considers appropriate, and provide
support to existing computer forensic laboratories, in order that all such
computer forensic laboratories have the capability—
(1) to provide forensic examinations with respect to seized or
intercepted computer evidence relating to criminal activity (including
cyberterrorism);
(ii) to provide training and education for Federal, State, and local law
enforcement personnel and prosecutors regarding the investigations,
forensic analyses, and prosecutions of computer-related crime
(including cyberterrorism);
(iii) to assist Federal, State, and local law enforcement in enforcing
Federal, State, and local criminal laws relating to computer-related
crime;
(iv) to facilitate and promote the sharing of Federal law enforcement
expertise and information about the investigation, analysis, and
prosecution of computer-related crime with State and local law
enforcement personnel and prosecutors, including the use of
multijurisdictional task forces; and
(v) to carry out such other activities as the Attorney General considers
appropriate.
(b) There is hereby authorized to be appropriated in each fiscal year
$50,000,000 for purposes of carrying out this section. Amounts appropriated
pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in this subsection shall
remain available until expended.
SEC. 112. PRESERVING THE JROTC.
(a) The United States Code shall be amended by the following—
Section 2031(b)(1)(A) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by
striking ‘‘100’’ and inserting ‘‘50’’; and by striking “10” and inserting
“5”; and
Section 2031(2)(A) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by
striking “48” and inserting ‘‘24’’.

SEC. 113. PAX MORTIS VICTIM MEMORIAL CONSTRUCTION.
(a) The Director of the National Parks Service may, on the behalf of the
Department of the Interior –
(i) enter into one agreement or contract with any Federal, State, or
local agency or private organization, to —
(A) construct a national monument to honor the victims of the
Pax Mortis terrorist attacks, on August 1st, and the fifteen
Associated Press members killed on July 18th; which shall be
finished no later than August 1st, 2025.
(ii) there is authorized to be appropriated, in the next budget,
$20,000,000 to carry out this section; and such appropriation shall be
added to the Department of the Interior under the name “Pax Mortis
Monument Construction”, which shall remain available until August
1st, 2025.
(iii) The memorial, when completed, shall be known as the “August
First Victims’ Memorial”.
(iv) In the event the funds authorized in Section 116(a)(ii) of this act
are not fully expended either by August 1st, 2025, or when the Director
of the National Parks Service concludes that the monument has been
completed, then such funds may be diverted, by the discretion of the
Secretary responsible for the Department of Interior, into separate
expenditures of the Department of the Interior, including the National
Parks Service and other funds as the Secretary may designate.
SEC 114. DOMESTIC TERRORISM OFFICES CREATION
(a) In this section, and in Section 118 of this act —
(i) the term “Director” means the Director of the Federal Bureau of
Investigation;
(ii) the term “Secretary”, except as otherwise provided, means the
Secretary responsible for the Department of Homeland Security;
and
(b) There is authorized a Domestic Terrorism Unit in the Office of
Intelligence and Analysis of the Department of Homeland Security, which
shall be responsible for monitoring and analyzing domestic terrorism
activity.
(c) There is authorized a Domestic Terrorism Office in the
Counterterrorism Section of the National Security Division of the
Department of Justice—

(i) which shall be responsible for investigating and prosecuting
incidents of domestic terrorism;
(ii) which shall be headed by the Domestic Terrorism Counsel.
(d) There is authorized a Domestic Terrorism Section within the
Counterterrorism Division of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, which
shall be responsible for investigating domestic terrorism activity.
(e) The Secretary, the Attorney General, and the Director shall each
ensure that each office authorized under this section in their respective
agencies shall—
(i) have an adequate number of employees to perform the required
duties; and
(ii) require that all employees undergo annual anti-bias training.
(e) There is authorized a Domestic Terrorism Executive Committee,
which shall meet on a regular basis, and not less regularly than 4 times
each year, to coordinate with United States Attorneys and other key
public safety officials across the United States to promote information
sharing and ensure an effective, responsive, and organized joint effort to
combat domestic terrorism.
SEC. 115. TRAINING TO COMBAT DOMESTIC TERRORISM.
(a) The Secretary, the Attorney General, and the Director shall review
the anti-terrorism training and resource programs of their respective
agencies that are provided to Federal, State, local, and Tribal law
enforcement agencies, including the State and Local Anti-Terrorism
Program that is funded by the Bureau of Justice Assistance of the
Department of Justice. The Attorney General shall make training
available to Department prosecutors and to Assistant United States
Attorneys on countering and prosecuting domestic terrorism. The
domestic-terrorism training shall focus on the most significant domestic
terrorism threats, as determined by the criteria listed in Section 3(3).
(b) Any individual who provides domestic terrorism training required
under this section shall have—
(i) expertise in domestic terrorism; and
(ii) relevant academic, law enforcement, or other community-based
experience in matters related to domestic terrorism.
SEC. 116. INCORPORATION OF AN OPEN TRANSLATION CENTER

(a) There is established a federally funded research and development
center to be known as the ‘‘Open Translation Center’’ (referred to in this
bill as ‘‘OTC’’).
(b) OTC shall be—
(i) administered as a separate entity by an organization managing a
federally funded research and development center on the date of the
enactment of this Act; or
(ii) incorporated as a nonprofit membership corporation.
(c) OTC shall be headed by a board that consists of five members to be
appointed as follows:
(i) Two members shall be appointed by the Secretary of State.
(ii) Two members shall be appointed by the Director of National
Intelligence.
(iii) One member shall be appointed by the Register of Copyrights.
(iv) Each member appointed to the board of OTC in accordance with
this subsection shall serve for a term of 3 years, and may be
re-appointed to consecutive terms.
(d) Members of the board shall be appointed from among individuals with
expertise in translation, publishing, domestic and international copyright
law, media, foreign languages, area studies, or international relations, and
shall make all decisions independently from the United States Government.
No member of the board may be an employee or official of the United States
during the term served by such member.
(e) The Chair of the board of OTC shall be elected from among the members
of the board.
(f) The purpose and mission of OTC is the following:
(i) The translation, analysis, and public dissemination of foreign
language government and other documents from designated countries,
for the purposes of enhancing the understanding of such countries’
governments, governing organizations, militaries, economies, and
cultures.
(ii) To provide proper context and explanations of translated foreign
language material to enhance the ability of consumers to understand
the meaning and significance of such translated material.
(iii) To strive to make as much translated foreign language material
publicly available as possible, and to provide summaries of important
foreign language material that cannot be made public.
(iv) To train and develop exceptional analysts and linguists with
specialization regarding designated countries.

(g) In furtherance of the purpose and mission specified in subsection f of this
section, OTC shall—
(i) translate into the English language documents and information
from designated countries;
(ii) provide analyses, summaries, and important context for material
translated pursuant to paragraph (1), and other untranslated material,
including—
(A) biographical sketches and information on important leaders;
(B) descriptions and background on political processes,
important bodies, companies, economic systems, and military
weapons systems and doctrines;
(C) definitions and analysis of important concepts and phrases;
(D) information regarding changes over time in the policies and
intentions of governments, militaries, and governing
organizations; and other issues that are of significance for
understanding designated countries;
(iii) cooperate with other relevant Federal agencies regarding any
effort consistent with such purpose and mission;
(iv) to the extent possible, provide such materials free of charge to all
United States Government employees, Members of Congress, and
congressional staff, as well as to organizations and individuals who
have relevant contracts or grants with the United States Government
or any part thereof; or
(h) In carrying out this section and section a, OTC shall—
(i) establish the capabilities to acquire, retain, train, and develop
exceptional analytical and linguistic expertise in designated countries
and designated languages;
(ii) use software, programs, artificial intelligence, and other
technologies to ensure timely translations;
(iii) seek input from technical, regional, and subject matter experts
from a wide range of relevant disciplines, to review, provide feedback,
and evaluate translations and analyses;
(iv) maximize cooperation with the public and private sectors in the
United States, including Federal agencies, as well as with United
States allies and partners, to maximize efficiencies, acquire source
materials, and eliminate duplication of efforts; and
(v) select materials, such as the materials described in paragraph (2),
to translate and analyze on the basis of—

(A) the significance of the material for United States
policymakers as well as for journalists, academics, and the
general public; and
(B) the ability of such material to enhance the understanding of
the politics, policies, intentions, ideologies, militaries,
businesses, technologies, science, or cultures of designated
countries.
(i) In carrying out the duties described in this section, OTC may consult and
cooperate with—
(i) relevant Federal agencies and grantees of the U.S. Agency for
Global Media, regarding any effort consistent with the purposes of this
Act, including—
(A) collecting source material;
(B) avoiding duplication of effort;
(C) details of employees;
(D) training; and
(2) other relevant stakeholders, including—
(I) nonprofit research institutes;
(II) institutions of higher education; and
(III) media organizations.
(j) OTC is authorized to consult and cooperate with any foreign government
beginning on the date that is 14 days after the enactment of this bill if—
(i) the Secretary of State certifies that it is in the national interest for
OTC to cooperate and consult with that foreign government; and
(ii) the Secretary of State provides to the relevant congressional
committees such certification.
(k) The Secretary of State shall be the primary sponsor of OTC. The
Secretary of State may enter into agreements with other relevant Federal
agencies to provide additional sponsors of OTC.
(l) in the context of this section, “designated countries” means –
(i) the People’s Republic of China; and
(ii) other countries as determined by the board established under this
section, in consultation with the Secretary of State.
(m) There are authorized to be appropriated for OTC—
(i) $85,000,000 for fiscal year 2024;
(ii) $80,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2025 through 2028; and
(iii) such sums as may be necessary for each fiscal year thereafter.

SEC. 117. INCREASED FUNDING FOR THE TECHNICAL SUPPORT
CENTER AT THE FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION.
There are authorized to be appropriated for the Technical Support Center
established in section 811 of the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty
Act of 1996 (Public Law 104–132) to help meet the demands for activities to
combat terrorism and support and enhance the technical support and tactical
operations of the FBI, $100,000,000 for the combined fiscal years 2024 and
2025.
SEC. 118. TO ESTABLISH THE OFFICE OF CYBER DIRECTOR.
(a) There is established, within the Executive Office of the President, the
Office of the National Cyber Director (in this section referred to as the
“Office”).
(b) The Office shall be headed by the National Cyber Director (in this
section referred to as the “Director”) who shall be appointed by the
President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. The
Director shall hold office at the pleasure of the President, and shall be
entitled to receive the same pay and allowances as are provided for level
I of the Executive Schedule under section 5312 of title 5, United States
Code.
(c) There shall be two Deputy National Cyber Directors, to be appointed
by the President, who shall hold office at the pleasure of the President,
and who shall report to the Director, as follows:
(i) The Deputy National Cyber Director for Strategy, Capabilities,
and Budget.
(ii) The Deputy National Cyber Director for Plans and Operations.
(d) Subject to the authority, direction, and control of the President, the
Director shall—
(i) serve as the principal advisor to the President on cybersecurity
strategy and policy;
(ii) in consultation with appropriate Federal departments and
agencies, develop the United States National Cyber Strategy,
which shall include elements related to Federal departments and
agencies—
(A) information security; and
(B) programs and policies intended to improve the United
States cybersecurity posture;

(iii) in consultation with appropriate Federal departments and
agencies and upon approval of the National Cyber Strategy by the
President, supervise implementation of the strategy by—
(A) in consultation with the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget, monitoring and assessing the
effectiveness, including cost-effectiveness, of Federal
departments and agencies’ implementation of the strategy;
(B) making recommendations relevant to changes in the
organization, personnel and resource allocation, and policies
of Federal departments and agencies to the Director of the
Office of Management and Budget and heads of such
departments and agencies in order to implement the
strategy;
(C) reviewing the annual budget proposal for each Federal
department or agency and certifying to the head of each
Federal department or agency and the Director of the Office
of Management and Budget whether the department or
agency proposal is consistent with the strategy;
(D) continuously assessing and making relevant
recommendations to the President on the appropriate level
of integration and interoperability across the Federal
cybersecurity operations centers;
(E) coordinating with the Federal Chief Information Officer,
the Federal Chief Information Security Officer, the Director
of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency,
and the Director of National Institute of Standards and
Technology on the development and implementation of
policies and guidelines related to issues of Federal
department and agency information security; and
(F) reporting annually to the President and the Congress on
the state of the United States cybersecurity posture, the
effectiveness of the strategy, and the status of Federal
departments and agencies’ implementation of the strategy;
(iv) lead joint interagency planning for the Federal Government’s
integrated response to cyberattacks and cyber campaigns of
significant consequence, to include—
(A) coordinating with relevant Federal departments and
agencies in the development of, for the approval of the

President, joint, integrated operational plans, processes, and
playbooks for incident response that feature—
(I) clear lines of authority and lines of effort across
the Federal Government;
(II) authorities that have been delegated to an
appropriate level to facilitate effective operational
responses across the Federal Government; and
(III) support for the integration of defensive cyber
plans and capabilities with offensive cyber plans and
capabilities in a manner consistent with improving
the United States cybersecurity posture;
(B) exercising these operational plans, processes, and
playbooks;
(C) updating these operational plans, processes, and
playbooks for incident response as needed in coordination
with ongoing offensive cyber plans and operations; and
(D) ensuring these plans, processes, and playbooks are
properly coordinated with relevant private sector entities, as
appropriate;
(v) direct the Federal Government’s response to cyberattacks and
cyber campaigns of significant consequence, to include—
(A) developing for the approval of the President, with the
heads of relevant Federal departments and agencies
independently or through the National Security Council as
directed by the President, operational priorities,
requirements, and tasks;
(B) coordinating, deconflicting, and ensuring the execution
of operational activities in incident response; and
(C) coordinating operational activities with relevant private
sector entities;
(vi) engage with private sector leaders on cybersecurity and
emerging technology issues with the support of, and in
coordination with, the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security
Agency and other Federal departments and agencies, as
appropriate;
(vii) annually report to Congress on cybersecurity threats and
issues facing the nation, including any new or emerging
technologies that may impact national security, economic
prosperity, or enforcing the rule of law; and

(viii) be responsible for such other functions as the President may
direct.
(ix) The Director may—
(A) serve as the senior representative on any body that the
President may establish for the purpose of providing the
President advice on cybersecurity;
(B) be empowered to convene National Security Council,
National Economic Council and Homeland Security Council
meetings, with the concurrence of the National Security
Advisor, Homeland Security Advisor, or Director of the
National Economic Council, as appropriate;
(C) be included as a participant in preparations for and, if
appropriate, execution of cybersecurity summits and other
international meetings at which cybersecurity is a major
topic;
(D) delegate any of the Director’s functions, powers, and
duties to such officers and employees of the Office as he may
designate; and
(E) authorize such successive re-delegations of such
functions, powers, and duties to such officers and employees
of the Office as he may deem appropriate.
(e) Section 101(c)(2) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C.
3021(c)(2)) is amended by striking “and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff” and inserting “the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the
National Cyber Director”.
(f) The Director may, for the purposes of carrying out the Director’s
functions under this section—
(i) subject to the civil service and classification laws, select,
appoint, employ, and fix the compensation of such officers and
employees as are necessary and prescribe their authority and
duties, except that not more than 75 individuals may be employed
without regard to any provision of law regulating the employment
or compensation at rates not to exceed the basic rate of basic pay
payable for level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 5315
of title 5, United States Code;
(ii) employ experts and consultants in accordance with section
3109 of title 5, United States Code, and compensate individuals so
employed for each day (including travel time) at rates not in excess
of the maximum rate of basic pay for grade GS–15 as provided in

section 5332 of such title, and while such experts and consultants
are so serving away from their homes or regular place of business,
to pay such employees travel expenses and per diem in lieu of
subsistence at rates authorized by section 5703 of such title 5 for
persons in Federal Government service employed intermittently;
(iii) promulgate such rules and regulations as may be necessary to
carry out the functions, powers, and duties vested in the Director;
(iv) utilize, with their consent, the services, personnel, and
facilities of other Federal agencies;
(v) enter into and perform such contracts, leases, cooperative
agreements, or other transactions as may be necessary in the
conduct of the work of the Office and on such terms as the Director
may determine appropriate, with any Federal agency, or with any
public or private person or entity;
(vi) accept voluntary and uncompensated services,
notwithstanding the provisions of section 1342 of title 31, United
States Code;
(vii) adopt an official seal, which shall be judicially noticed; and
(viii) provide, where authorized by law, copies of documents to
persons at cost, except that any funds so received shall be credited
to, and be available for use from, the account from which
expenditures relating thereto were made.
TITLE II—ENHANCING AMERICAN CRISIS
RESPONSE & FLEXIBILITY
SEC. 201. CONGRESSIONAL FINDINGS.
Congress finds that —
(a) That in times of immediate emergency or crisis, the more
deliberative nature of Congress means that Congress is often unable to
respond immediately to threats in a timely fashion as may be
necessary to save lives, prevent extreme damage, or pursue
perpetrators before they are lost; and therefore, these tasks are
typically delegated to the Executive Branch of the government.
(b) Because of the inability of Congress to respond in time frames as
may be necessary, previous Congresses have afforded to the President
emergency powers, through acts including but not limited to the

National Emergencies Act of 1976 and the International Emergency
Economic Powers Act of 1977, which he may invoke in times of
national emergency as he may declare, to manage such immediate
emergencies or crises as may be necessary in a short timeframe.
(c) However, powers afforded in the current acts have long periods
during which they may be active before their expiration (as long as two
years as per the International Emergency Economic Powers Act) and
the powers afforded are adjusted in ability accordingly - significantly
more moderate in scale, while useful, leading to harmful and
unnecessary constraints on executive ability during times of severe
and real national emergency.
(d) There should be emergency powers afforded to the executive, which
should be more powerful than those currently afforded to him, so he
can effectively manage crisis in the extremely important
minute-by-minute level; but unlike the earlier emergency powers
afforded to the President, these powers may only be active upon his
declaration of a national emergency for a significantly shorter period of
time - twenty-four hours, three days, seven days, or a fortnight,
depending on the scope of the emergency powers, before congressional
authorization may be needed to use such powers further.
(e) That shall be the stated purpose of this title, as well as other
measures.
SEC. 202. RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
No authority granted by this title upon the condition of a declaration of
national emergency, in which such authority expires less than fourteen days
following the invocation of said authority, may be invoked for a second time in
the same thirty-day period in regards to the same subject without explicit
authorization of congress.
SEC. 203. WASHINGTON METRO AREA TRANSIT AUTHORITY.
(a) During times of war or national emergency declared by Congress, or the
President, if the President should judge there is a significant and domestic
threat to the national security, or safety of the people of the United States of
America, involving the Washington Metro Area Transit Authority, the
President, through executive order, direction, memorandum, or proclamation,
may place the Metro Transit Police Department under presidential control;
and make decisions regarding the Washington Metro Area Transit Authority
on behalf of its board of directors.

(b) If the President of the United States should invoke the authority granted
to him by Section 203(a) of this act, such authority will be in effect from the
moment of invocation until twenty-four hours following invocation; and
unless a joint resolution from both chambers of Congress, to sustain such
invocation, has become law before twenty-four hours after invocation, the
authority shall be considered and expired Section 202 of this act shall come
into effect regarding further invocation.
SEC. 204. NATIONAL GUARD FEDERALIZATION
(a) During time of war or national emergency declared by Congress, or the
President, if the President should judge there is a significant and domestic
threat to the national security, or safety of the people of the United States of
America, arising from persons or organizations within the nation, against
whom confrontation would be extremely dangerous by means of significant
capacity and intent to commit violent actions to a degree to which the
President judges law enforcement will find it difficult to confront themselves,
from those persons or organizations, the President may waive those sections
of law which prohibit him from ordering the Chief of the National Guard
Bureau to order a National Guard to place itself under federal control, and he
may order such Guard to take measures to counter such significant domestic
threat to the national security, through published executive order.
(b) If the President of the United States should invoke the authority granted
to him by Section 204(a) of this act, such authority will be in effect from the
moment of invocation until fourteen days following invocation; and unless a
joint resolution from both chambers of Congress, to sustain such invocation,
has become law before fourteen days after invocation, the authority shall be
considered expired, and Section 202 of this act shall come into effect
regarding further invocation.
SEC. 205. DEPARTMENTAL LINE OF SUCCESSION
(a) During time of war or national emergency declared by Congress or the
President, if the office of Secretary responsible for the Departments of State,
Defense, the Treasury, Justice, or Homeland Security is vacant, or the
officeholder be unable to perform the functions and duties of the office, and
the President determines the first assistant to the office of such officer is not
present to perform the full functions of the office, though he may not be
legally incapacitated—
(i) The President is granted the authority, through executive order,
waive the provisions of 5 U.S. Code § 3345, and he may designate a

person of his choosing to perform the functions and duties of the office,
provided that person is a United States Citizen, has served either in
the United States Congress or Presidential Cabinet prior to his
designation, or is currently holding any office whose salary is paid for
by the United States Government.
(ii) Should the first assistant to the office as defined in 5 U.S. Code §
3345, and whose definition is not waived by Section 206(a)(i) of this
act, transmit to the President a statement of presence and capability to
perform the duties of his office at any point during the time he is not
performing perform the duties of acting secretary due to the conditions
of Section 206(a)(i) of this act, the authority, waiver and designation
shall be considered expired, effective immediately — but if such
transmission was performed less than one hour following the
promulgation of such executive order provided for in Section 206(a)(i)
of this act, the original order shall not be considered an invocation of
authority under Section 202 of this act.
(b) If the President of the United States should invoke the authority granted
to him by Section 206(a)(i) of this act, such authority will be in effect from the
moment of invocation until three days following invocation; and unless a joint
resolution from both chambers of Congress, to sustain such invocation, has
become law before three days after invocation, the authority shall be
considered expired, the acting officer shall be removed from the role of acting
Secretary, and Section 202 of this act shall come into effect regarding further
invocation.
SEC. 206. SMALL BUSINESS DISASTER RELIEF
The Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636) is amended as follows:
(a) Section 7(b) (15 U.S.C. 636(b)) is amended by adding the following
paragraph at the end:
"(9) In addition to physical and economic injury disaster loans under
paragraph (2), the Administrator may provide low-interest disaster
loans to cover insurance deductibles of small businesses' insurance
claims resulting from disasters, and to cover the cost of lost pay for
workers of small businesses affected by disasters, subject to the terms
and conditions determined by the Administrator."
(b) Section 7(b)(1)(B) (15 U.S.C. 636(b)(1)(B)) is amended by inserting ",
including insurance deductibles of small businesses' insurance claims and the
cost of lost pay for workers," after "economic injury" wherever it appears.

(c) The Administrator of the Small Business Administration shall establish
and maintain procedures and guidelines for the implementation of the
program described in subsection (a)(1)(9) of this section, including eligibility
criteria, loan terms, and application processes, and shall ensure that total
authorizations for these purposes do not exceed $15,500,000 per fiscal year.
(d) APPROPRIATIONS—There is authorized to be appropriated such sums
as may be necessary, not to exceed $15,500,000 per fiscal year, to carry out
the provisions of this section.
SEC. 207. AMENDMENTS AND REPEALS.
(a) 10 U.S. Code § 603 shall be amended in subsection (a) by striking the
words “major” and “rear”.
(b) 10 U.S. Code § 7063 is amended in subsection (b) by adding “of Defense”
after “Secretary”, striking “Army”, and adding “Armed Forces as defined in
10 U.S. Code § 3063” in its place.
(c) Section 101(a) of Public Law 95-223, shall be repealed, effective
immediately.
(d) Section (b)(1) and (b)(2) of 50 U.S. Code § 3806 shall be amended to
remove the text, “except after a declaration of war or national emergency
made by the Congress subsequent to June 24, 1948”, and striking
subparagraphs (A) and (B) from (b)(2).
(e) Public Laws 176-1 and 95-511 shall be repealed in favor of this act.
(f) Section (a) of 10 U.S. Code § 12103 is amended, by adding, “or by the
President, should such presidentially declared emergency involve use of the
armed forces”, following “Congress,”.
(g) 42 U.S. Code § 2138, 14 U.S. Code § 3733, and 10 U.S. Code § 7063 are
amended in both laws by adding “or the President” following the sole mention
of “Congress”.
SEC. 208. INCLUSION OF SERVICES BY PHYSICIAN ASSISTANTS AND
NURSE PRACTITIONERS IN FEDERAL EMPLOYEES’ COMPENSATION.
(a) Section 8101 of title 5, United States Code, is amended—
(i) in paragraph (3), by inserting ‘‘, other eligible providers,’’ after
‘‘osteopathic practitioners’’;
(ii) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end of paragraphs (18) and (19);
(iii) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (20) and inserting ‘‘;
and’’; and
(iv) by adding at the end the following:

‘‘(21) ‘other eligible provider’ means a nurse practitioner or
physician assistant within the scope of their practice as defined
by State law.’’.
(b) Chapter 81 of title 5, United States Code, is amended—
(i) in section 8103(a)—
(A) by inserting ‘‘or other eligible provider’’ after ‘‘physician’’ in
each instance; and
(B) in paragraph (3), by inserting ‘‘or other eligible providers’’
after ‘‘physicians’’;
(ii) in section 8121(6), by inserting ‘‘or other eligible provider’’ after
‘‘physician’’; and
(iii) in section 8123(a)—
(A) by inserting ‘‘or other eligible provider’’ after ‘‘The employee
may have a physician’’; and
(B) by inserting ‘‘or other eligible provider’’ after ‘‘United States
and the physician’’.
TITLE III—GENERAL LEGAL SECTIONS, AND
MISCELLANEOUS
SEC. 301. SEVERABILITY.
Should any portion of this Act be deemed invalid or unconstitutional for any reason
in a court with relevant jurisdiction, the rest of the Act, and the application of the
remaining provisions, shall not be affected.
SEC. 302. SUPREMACY.
Any existing provisions of law that contradict this Act shall be considered null and
void for the purposes of interpreting this legislation.
SEC. 303. EFFECTIVE DATE.
This act shall take effect immediately upon enactment.
SEC. 304. RULES OF CONSTRUCTION
Nothing in this Act, or any amendment made by this Act, may be construed to
authorize the infringement or violation of any right protected under the First
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States or an applicable provision
of Federal law.

// credit for Section 119 to Pluribus and 206 to Ducky