181stCONGRESS
1 SESSION
ST
S.3
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
September 17th, 2024
Ms. Hersey of Jackson (for herself) introduced the following bill
A BILL
To establish a grant program through the Department of Education to provide funding for
mental health education in public high schools.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress assembled,
SEC. 1. SHORT TITLE.
SHORT TITLE—This Act may be cited as the "Mental Health Education
Act”.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS
(a) FINDINGS—Congress finds and establishes that:
i. There is a mental health epidemic in the United States.
ii. There is a lack of mental health education for our youth who are
disproportionately affected by mental health issues.
iii. Mental health education for youth would help mitigate the effects of adverse
mental health illnesses.
SEC. 3. GRANT PROGRAM FOR MENTAL HEALTH EDUCATION
(a) AUTHORIZATION—-The Department of Education shall establish a grant
program to provide financial assistance to eligible public high schools for the
installment of special mental health seminars for the purpose of mental health
education.The grant program shall allocate a total of $5,000,000 annually, which

shall be made available through grants to eligible school districts to distribute to
public high schools.
(b) ELIGIBILITY—To be eligible for a grant under this program, a school district
must submit an application that includes a plan on how they will distribute the
money through local high schools and each school’s plan on how to utilize the money.
(c) USE OF FUNDS—Eligible school districts have the right to distribute grant
funds to the local high schools as they see fit. Funds used by each school must be
used according to the plan proposed by the school when applying for these grants.
Appropriate use of funds include but are not limited to training teachers on spotting
mental health signs, paying for experts to come speak, paying for materials to
educate children on mental health, and paying for mental health help resources.
(d) APPL:ICATIONS—The Secretary of Education shall establish procedures for the
application, review, and acceptance of grant proposals. Grant proposals shall be
evaluated based on the application from school districts and the appropriate uses of
funds.
SEC. 4. FUNDING
(a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS—-There is authorized to be
appropriated $5,000,000 annually for each fiscal year to carry out this Act, through
fiscal year 2034.
(b) AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS—Funds appropriated under this Act shall remain
available until expended.
SEC. 5. EFFECTIVE DATE
(a) EFFECTIVE DATE—This Act shall take effect 90 days after its enactment.
SEC. 6. SEVERABILITY
SEVERABILITY—If any provision of this Act, or the application thereof, is held
invalid, the remainder of this Act and the application of such provision to other
persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------