IN THE CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES
April 30, 2020
Mr. SYSADMIN (for himself, Mr. MITCHELL, Mr. SCHLORP,
and Mr. SLEEK) introduced the following bill;
A BILL
To Achieve a more effective and transparent monetary policy.
Be it enacted by the House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress
Assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This bill may be cited as the “Monetary Policy Modernization and Transparency Act of 2020”
SECTION 2. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act—
1. “Board of Governors” - The term “Board of Governors” or “Board” means the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System..
2. “Federal Reserve” - The term “Federal Reserve” means the Federal Reserve System of
the United States.
3. “Dual Mandate” - The term “Dual Mandate” means the current Federal Reserve
objectives of maximum employment and stable prices.
SECTION 3. FINDINGS
This body finds-
1. Adjustments to the Federal Reserve’s 13(3) and emergency authority may need to be
adjusted to allow for greater transparency and auditing.

2. The Federal Reserve (much like other Central Banks around the globe) are unable to
fulfil the dual mandate currently prescribed to them as it impossible for a central bank to
maximize employment with the policy tools prescribed to them.
SECTION 4. AMENDMENT IN STATUTE.
1. In General. -- The Federal Reserve Act (as Amended by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street
Reform and Consumer Protection Act) (12 U.S.C. §§ 221-552) is amended--
a. In Chapter 13 (12 U.S.C. § 343)
i. In Section 3 (12 U.S.C. § 343) --
1. In Subsection B. --
a. In Paragraph (iv) --
i. By inserting “Any such program or facility
established under this section, shall be monitored by
the Inspector General of the Treasury Department
and Government Accountability Office and release
reports on the status and safety of such programs
and facilities every 30 days.
b. By inserting a paragraph (v) stating “The Board may
establish emergency lending programs or facilities that may
aid a failing financial company, or work with securities for
emergency loans which may not protect taxpayers from
losses upon approval by a majority vote of the Financial
Stability Oversight Council, approval of the House
Committee on Financial Services (or House of
Representatives), and approval of the Senate Banking
Committee (or Senate).
2. In General. -- The Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. §§ 221-552) is amended--
a. In Section 2A (12 U.S.C. § 225a.) --
i. By striking “maximum employment, stable prices, and moderate
long-term interest rates.” and inserting “stable prices and moderate
long-term interest rates.”
SECTION 5. SEVERABILITY.
If any provision of this Act, or any application of such provision to any person or circumstance,
is held to be unconstitutional, the remainder of this Act and the application of this Act to any
other person or circumstance shall not be affected.
SECTION 6. ENACTMENT.

This Act shall go into effect on the date which it is adopted by the Congress and signed by the
President.
SECTION 7. CONFLICTS.
Any laws in conflict with this legislation are hereby declared null and void.