IntroducedinHouse(02/21/20)
ToauthorizeandfundtheestablishmentofanationalmissiledefensenetworkwhichreleasestheUnitedStatesfromthethreatof
assureddestructionintheeventofanuclearexchange.
IN THE CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES
FEBRUARY 21, 2020
Mr. HOLBROOK (for himself, Mr. HARRIS, Mr. HULL, Mr. S4L, Mr. PLURIBUS,
and Mr. BO) introduced the following bill;
A BILL
ToauthorizeandfundtheestablishmentofanationalmissiledefensenetworkwhichreleasestheUnitedStatesfromthethreatof
assureddestructionintheeventofanuclearexchange.
Whereas,noforeignpowershouldbepermittedtowieldthepoweroftotalannihilationoverAmericaorherallies,
BeitenactedbytheHouseofRepresentativesoftheUnitedStatesofAmericainCongressassembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the “National Missile Defense Act 2020”.
SEC. 2. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 for procurement by the Missile Defense Agency,
the Air Force, the Army, the Navy, and Defense-wide activities, as specified in the funding table in section 9.
SEC. 3. NATIONAL MISSILE DEFENSE POLICY.
(a) Policy.—Subsection (a) of section 1681 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public
Law 114–328; 10 U.S.C. 2431 note) is amended to read as follows:
“(a) Policy.—It is the policy of the United States to—
“(1) maintain and improve, with funding subject to the annual authorization of appropriations and the
annual appropriation of funds for National Missile Defense—
“(A) an effective protection of the homeland of the United States against offensive missile
threats posed by peer nations and potential adversaries; and
“(B) an effective regional missile defense system capable of defending the allies, partners, and
deployed forces of the United States against offensive missile threats; and
“(2) an effective nuclear deterrence to further address sophisticated and large quantity near-peer
intercontinental ballistic missile threats.”.
SEC. 4. MISSILE DEFENSE INTERCEPTOR SITES IN THE UNITED STATES.

IntroducedinHouse(02/21/20)
(a) Designation.—The Secretary of Defense shall designate the preferred locations of missile defense interceptor
sites in the United States. The Secretary shall make such designation based on the following:
(1) The environmental impact statement prepared pursuant to section 227 of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112–239; 126 Stat. 1678).
(2) Strategic and operational effectiveness, including with respect to the location that is the most
advantageous site in providing coverage to the entire United States, including having the capability to provide
shoot-assess-shoot coverage to the entire United States.
(3) Security from earthquake, flood, tornado, or other natural disturbance.
(4) Construction remediation efforts and impacts to the existing environment at the site.
(5) The existing infrastructure at the site.
(6) The costs to construct, equip, and operate the site.
(b) Military Construction.—The Secretary, once they have fulfilled the task of designating preferred locations under
the aforementioned rubric, shall carry out the procurement of all necessary land, hardware and staff and begin
construction of these sites with funds appropriated under section 7 of this act.
(c) Redundancy.—There shall be at least five interceptors for each intercontinental ballistic missile in the combined
inventories of Russia, China, and North Korea.
SEC. 5. MISSILE DEFENSE RADARS IN THE UNITED STATES.
(a) Designation.—The Secretary shall designate the preferred locations for missile defense radar sites in the
United States and its territories. The Secretary shall make such designation based on the following:
(1) The environmental impact statement prepared pursuant to section 227 of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112–239; 126 Stat. 1678).
(2) Strategic and operational effectiveness, including with respect to the locations that are the most
advantageous sites in providing coverage over the entire United States.
(3) Construction remediation efforts and impacts to the existing environment at the site.
(4) The existing infrastructure at the site.
(5) The costs to construct, equip, and operate the site.
(b) Military Construction.—The Secretary, once they have fulfilled the task of designating preferred locations under
the aforementioned rubric, shall carry out the procurement of all necessary land, hardware and staff and begin
construction of these sites with funds appropriated under section 7 of this act.
SEC. 6. MISSILE DEFENSE SATELLITES.
(a) Research.—The Department of Defense shall conduct research in order to determine whether or not it is
feasible to develop and deploy reliable vehicles, weapons, or otherwise space-based means of detecting and
intercepting intercontinental ballistic missiles. The Department shall determine feasibility based on the following:
(1) The strategic and operational effectiveness, including with respect to the altitudes and inclinations of
orbits that are most advantageous in preventing or thwarting missile attack on the United States.
(2) The costs to construct, equip, deploy, and operate the satellites.
(b) Report.—The Secretary shall, upon the completion of the aforementioned study, compile a report of the
findings and deliver it to Congress and the President.
SEC. 7. APPROPRIATIONS.
(a) Interceptor Sites.—For the purposes of section 4 of this act:
(1) in fiscal years 2022 and 2023, $1,500,000,000 is appropriated from the general fund for the study and
designation of missile defense interceptor sites.

IntroducedinHouse(02/21/20)
(2) for fiscal years 2024 through 2035, $155,000,000,000 is appropriated from the general fund for the
construction of missile defense interceptor sites.
(b) Radar Sites.—For the purposes of section 5 of this act:
(1) for fiscal years 2022 and 2023, $250,000,000 is appropriated from the general fund for the study and
designation of missile defense radar sites.
(2) for fiscal years 2021 through 2025, $15,000,000,000 is appropriated from the general fund for the
construction of missile defense radar sites.
(c) Satellites.—For the purposes of section 6 of this act:
(1) for fiscal years 2022 through 2030, $1,500,000,000 is appropriated from the general fund for the study of
space-based means of missile defense.
SEC. 8. ENACTMENT.
(a) Effective Date.—This act shall take effect immediately upon passage.