157TH CONGRESS
1ST SESSION
H.R. __
To preserve America’s environmental and historical land and provide for the addition of new National
Parks.
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
SEPTEMBER, 2022
Mr. MEELO TV (for the Eaton Administration) introduced the
following bill;
A BILL
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
of
America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the “National Preservation Act”.

SEC. 2. ADDITION OF NATIONAL PARKS AND EXPANSION.
(a) The National Park service shall be granted necessary power and
responsibilities to establish new National parks. Said new national parks
shall be:
I. Tongass National Park: The land of Alaska’s Tongass National
Forest will be redesignated as a 16.8 million acre national park that
will permanently end destructive logging and ensure habitat
protection and wilderness recreation is a top priority.
II. Ancient Forest National Park: The 5 million acre Ancient Forest
National Park shall span 230 miles from the Rouge River in the
region of Oregon to the Eel river in California. The park would
safeguard much of the Klamath-Siskiyou ecoregion, a global
biodiversity hotspot and the highest concentration of wilderness and
roadless areas on the Pacific coast. As habitats shift with the
changing climate, a national park connecting these many separate
wildlands will be increasingly important.
III. Craters of the Moon National Park: Recognizing that Idaho is the
only region in the West without a National Park, a 2.7 million-acre
Craters of the Moon National Park shall be established to correct this
deficiency. An expanded and new national park would incorporate the
existing monument and preserve, with its spectacular volcanic
features and high desert ecosystems. It would also include adjacent
public lands with vast sagebrush steppe habitats needed by the
imperiled sage grouse and rich soils that store carbon.
IV. Gila National Park: A 6.5-million-acre Gila National Park in
Arizona and New Mexico offers a rare chance to restore an
ecologically complete landscape in the Southwest. The area includes
the largest complex of roadless forest lands in the region—including
the Gila Wilderness, the world’s first legally designated wilderness.
The area has habitat for the endangered Mexican gray wolf, potential

for the reintroduction of the extirpated jaguar, and expansive
wildlands providing solitude and adventure.
V. Frontier Prairie National Park: The grasslands at the
convergence of Colorado, Kansas, Oklahoma, Texas, and New Mexico
were ground zero for the 1930s Dust Bowl. The federal government
acquired devastated farmlands, but now they are threatened by
climate change and unsustainable resource extraction. A
1-million-acre Shortgrass Prairie National Park would preserve
endangered wildlife habitats, ancient Native American sites, Santa
Fe Trail sections, and fossilized dinosaur tracks.
VI. North Woods National Park: A 3-million-acre North Woods
National Park, in Michigan and Wisconsin, would be the largest in
the midwest. The park would incorporate three of the most
carbon-dense national forests east of the Rockies. Remote forest, lake,
river, and wetland ecosystems are home to threatened wildlife such as
wolves, lynx, martens, and ospreys. Park designation would shift the
management priority from logging to preservation and recreation for
millions of people in the region.
VII. Lake Erie National Park: The closest national park to Detroit,
Michigan, and Toledo, Ohio, is in Canada. Some important natural
areas in this industrialized region are in public or land trust
ownership, but they are scattered and sometimes inadequately
protected. A 200,000-acre Lake Erie Watershed National Park would
knit together existing public lands and acquire key private lands,
protecting critically endangered ecosystems and offering healthy
green spaces within reach of 6 million people.
VIII. High Allegheny National Park: The Monongahela in the West
Virginia region is one of the most ecologically diverse and
carbon-dense national forests in the eastern United States. Yet
logging threatens species such as the northern flying squirrel,
hellbender salamander, and wild brook trout. The redesignation of

the national forest as a 950,000-acre High Allegheny National Park
would preserve intact habitats and rare wilderness recreation in the
densely populated mid-Atlantic region.
IX. Green Mountain National Park: In the 1930s, the National Park
Service concluded that the recreation value of Vermont’s Green
Mountains “outweighs the values that might be obtained by the
commercial utilization of their resources.” Yet today logging is the top
priority under US Forest Service management. A 410,000-acre Green
Mountain National Park would not only preserve recreational values
but also diverse habitats and massive forest carbon storage.
X. Maine Woods National Park: A Main Woods National Park would
cover 3.2 million acres of the largest undeveloped forest east of the
Rockies. Although it was a national monument designated in 2016
which saved a key tract, sadly most of the region is increasingly
vulnerable to development. An expanded national park could double
carbon storage in vast forests recovering from past logging while
safeguarding wild rivers, habitat for diverse wildlife, and
Alaska-scale wilderness recreation accessible to 50 million people.
XI. Florida Big Bend National Park: A 1.9-million-acre Florida Big
Bend National Park would encompass the largest remaining stretch
of undeveloped coastline in the lower states and the second-largest
area of seagrass in the eastern Gulf of Mexico. The park would
preserve forests, wetlands, rivers, springs, estuaries, and marine
ecosystems that are home to imperiled wildlife, storehouses of “blue”
carbon, and open green space accessible to 12 million people.
XII. Vieques National Park: An 19,000-acre Vieques National Park will
lie off the coast of Puerto Rico in the Caribbean Basin, a global
biodiversity hotspot. The park would encompass the renowned Puerto
Mosquito bioluminescent bay, tropical dry forests, mangroves, coral
reefs, and seagrass beds that provide habitat for imperiled species

and “blue” carbon storage. World-class beaches and important
cultural sites offer outstanding recreation.
(b) To fund the cost of the establishment of the aforementioned new National
Parks, and to repair, expand, or upgrade any existing ones, the National Park
Service is appropriated a sum of $650 million.
(c) REFERENCE – The image below, courtesy of the New National Parks Campaign
shall represent the new National Parks established under this Act.
SEC. 4. ENACTMENT.
(a) Any law in conflict with this Act shall hereby be declared null and void.
(b) This Act shall go into law immediately after presidential signing.