- 1 -
175th
CONGRESS
S.2
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
MARCH 14, 2024
Introduced by Mr. Pluribus, for themself, Mr. Harris-Charest, Mr. Twos
IN THE HOUSE: Ms. Trump, Mr. Hersey, Mr. Molhoj
A BILL
To provide for an enhanced domestic content requirement for Navy shipbuilding
programs.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1.SHORTTITLE.
This Actmaybe citedas the“Naval DomesticShipbuilding Requirement Actof2024.”
SEC.2.ENHANCEDDOMESTICCONTENTREQUIREMENT FOR NAVY
SHIPBUILDING
(B) supplied during the period beginning January 1, 2027, and
ending December 31, 2032, exceeds 75 percent of the cost of the
manufactured(a) ENHANCED DOMESTIC CONTENT REQUIREMENT.—
(1) CONTRACTING REQUIREMENTS.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), for purposes of chapter 83 of title 41, United States Code,
manufactured articles, materials, or supplies procured as part of a Navy
shipbuilding program are manufactured substantially all from articles,

- 2 -
materials, or supplies mined, produced, or manufactured in the United
States if the cost of such component articles, materials, or supplies—
(A) supplied during the period beginning January 1, 2025, and
ending December 31, 2027, exceeds 65 percent of the cost of the
manufactured articles, materials, or supplies;
articles, materials, or supplies; and
(C) supplied on or after January 1, 2032, equals 100 percent of the
cost of the manufactured articles, materials, or supplies.
(2) APPLICABILITY TO RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND
EVALUATION ACTIVITIES.—Contracts related to shipbuilding programs
entered into under paragraph (1) to carry out research, development, test,
and evaluation activities shall require that these activities and the
components specified during these activities must meet the domestic
content requirements delineated under paragraph (1).
(3) EXCLUSION FOR CERTAIN MANUFACTURED
ARTICLES.—Paragraph (1) shall not apply to manufactured articles that
consist wholly or predominantly of iron, steel, or a combination of iron and
steel.
(4) WAIVER.—The Secretary of Defense may request a waiver from
the requirements under paragraph (1) in order to expand sourcing to
members of the national technical industrial base (as that term is defined
in section 4801 of title 10, United States Code). Any such waiver shall be
subject to the approval of the Inspector General of the Department of
Defense and may only be requested if it is determined that any of the
following apply:

- 3 -
(A) Application of the limitation would increase the cost of the
overall acquisition by more than 25 percent or cause unreasonable
delays to be incurred.
(B) Satisfactory quality items manufactured by a domestic entity
are not available or domestic production of such items cannot be
initiated without significantly delaying the project for which the item
is to be acquired.
(C) It is inconsistent with the public interest.
(5) RULEMAKING.—Not later than 180 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in concurrence with the
Inspector General of the Department of Defense, shall issue rules to
determine the treatment of the lowest price offered for a foreign end
product for which 55 percent or more of the component articles, materials,
or supplies of such foreign end product are manufactured substantially all
from articles, materials, or supplies mined, produced, or manufactured in
the United States if—
(A) the application of paragraph (1) results in an unreasonable
cost; or
(B) no offers are submitted to supply manufactured articles,
materials, or supplies manufactured substantially all from articles,
materials, or supplies mined, produced, or manufactured in the United
States.
(6) APPLICABILITY.—The requirements of this subsection shall apply
to contracts entered into on or after January 1, 2025.

- 4 -
(b) REPORTING ON COUNTRY OF ORIGIN MANUFACTURING.—Not later than one
year after the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the
Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a report on country of origin
tracking and reporting as it relates to manufactured content procured as part of
Navy shipbuilding programs, including through primary contracts and
subcontracts at the second and third tiers. The report shall describe measures
taken to ensure that the country of origin information pertaining to such
content is reported accurately in terms of the location of manufacture and not
determined by the location of sale.