IN THE CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES
NOVEMBER 17th, 2020
Mr. Morales and Mr. Loulou (for themselves, Ms. Kyouko, Mr.
Koay, Mr. Romerio, Mr. Carton) introduced the following bill,
which was subsequently referred to the Senate.
To create and establish Net Neutrality protections for the Internet across the United States.
Be it enacted by the Senate and the House of Representatives of the United States
in America assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This act may be cited as the “Net Neutrality Protections Act.” or NNPA for short
SECTION 2. FINDINGS.
Congress finds that —
(a) The term “Net Neutrality" is the principle that all Internet service providers must treat all
Internet communications equally and prohibits any ISP from slowing down or blocking
any content, applications, and websites.
(b) The authority of the Federal Communications Commission is derived from the delegation
of this authority from the United States Congress, under the Communications Act of
1934. The authority of the Federal Communications Commission cannot exceed its

source, the United States Congress, and thus, Congress has the authority to legislate to
regulate the Federal Communications Commission.
(c) The term "ISP" is short for Internet Service Providers like AT&T, Comcast, Verizon, and
etc.
(d) This bill is partially based upon the state of California’s SB 822 sponsored by California
State Senator Scott Wiener.
(e) On September 30th 2018, SB 822 was signed by Governor Jerry Brown to legislate the
protections of the FCC’s 2015 Open Internet Order, under the police powers that
individual states have under the Tenth Amendment. Under the premise that Congress
granted the Federal Communications Commission the sole power to regulate internet
providers, and that internet access did not fall under the scope of police powers as
claimed by SB 822, the United States Department of Justice sued the state of California
on this bill. On October 26 2018, the state of California and the Federal Communications
Commission reached an agreement to not enforce SB 822.
SECTION 3. DEFINITIONS.
In this act—
(a) APPLICATION AGNOSTIC.— The term “application agnostic” means not
differentiating on the basis of source, destination, internet content, application, service, or
device, or class of Internet content, application, service, or device.
(b) CONTENT PROVIDER.— The term “content provider” means any individual or entity
that provides any content or service over the Internet.
(c) INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDER.— The term “Internet service provider” means an
organization that provides services for accessing, using, or participating in the Internet.
SECTION 4. PROTECTIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL — Internet access across the United States shall be compelled to be
provided in a manner which is application agnostic.

(b) REGULATIONS — It shall be unlawful for an Internet service provider to do any of the
following —
(i) To block content, services, or non-malicious devices which are in compliance
with the law.
(ii) To provide internet service at a higher speed by differentiating between content,
service, or device.
(iii) To solicit or accept financial or other compensation from an in exchange for
adjusting in any way, its delivery of Internet traffic from a content provider.
(iv) To fail to provide accurate information to consumers regarding the performance
of services provided by the Internet service provider.
(v) To otherwise not provide Internet access to lawful content in an application
agnostic manner.
(c) If Internet service providers determined by the Federal Communications Commission to
be tampering with Internet access in violation with the provisions of this section, such
Internet service providers shall be fined 20% of the taxable corporate income of that year,
and every forthcoming year until they are determined by the Federal Communications
Commission to no longer be in violation of these provisions. During this, Internet service
providers will be monitored by the Federal Communications Commission.
SECTION 5. ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR NET NEUTRALITY
(a) CREATION — The position of Assistant Secretary for Net Neutrality (hereafter referred
to as ‘the Assistant Secretary) is established.
(b) APPOINTMENT — The Assistant Secretary shall be appointed by the President of the
United States, with the advice and consent of the Senate of the United States.
(c) RANK — The Assistant Secretary shall report to the Federal Communications
Commission Administrator.
(d) DUTIES — The Assistant Secretary shall perform such duties and exercise such powers
as the Federal Communications Commission Administrator shall prescribe, and shall
have overall supervision over the regulations of Point (b) of Section 4 of this bill.
SECTION 6. EMERGENCY SERVICES.

(a) No provision within this bill shall be construed to override any existing legislation or
obligation for a Internet service provider to address the needs of emergency services.
SECTION 7. ENACTMENT
The provisions of this statute shall go into effect immediately upon the signature of the President.
SECTION 8. SEVERABILITY
(a) SEVERABILITY — Should any provision of this Act be deemed invalid or
unconstitutional for any reason in a court with relevant jurisdiction, the rest of the Act,
and the application of the remaining provisions, shall not be affected.