CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
February 24, 2020
Sponsored by:
Congressman Theodore Hill (I-DE)
Cosponsors:
Deputy Whip Mike (D-TX)
Congressman Bo (D-FL)
The Neutral Economic Education Act
Section 1. Short Title
This act may be referred to as the, “Neutral Economics Act or N.E.A.”.
Section 2. Purpose
More than half of school districts in the United States do not require an Economic Literacy credit
and often those who do will politicize the course to a point where any actual, unbiased
information, is buried underneath layers of partisanship. This bill will ensure that all who take
this class will leave with, not only a better understanding of our economic system and how to
flourish in it, but as well as changes that they or the politicians they support may wish to make to
that system.
Section 3: Curriculum
In the first half of the course (semester 1), students will be taught in macroeconomics going
over the many different economic systems a nation may have. The course will be divided into
three units, in each unit the pros and cons of the system will be disguised and teachers are
required to display them in a completely neutral light:
Semester 1:
Market: This unit will go over different forms of market economies, especially capitalist ones (not
including mixed systems such as the Nordic Model/Social Democracy) and will explain the
history behind it as well as effects of it, both positive and negative. The end of this unit will
discuss reforms that have taken place and will lead into the next unit
Mixed: Economies that implement elements from both socialist and command economies as
well as ones from capitalism and market economies. This unit will range from systems that are
still inherently capitalist (example the Nordic Model) to systems that are still inherently command
(Modern China). They will explain the history behind these systems as well as the effects it has,
negative and positive. They must be displayed as unbiased as possible.
Command: This unit will go over both left and right wing command economies and the effects
that they had, both positive and negative, this will range from systems like the USSR to Nazi
Germany. They will be portrayed as unbiased as possible

Semester 2:
This will be a microeconomics class that will teach the students how to manage personal
finances as well as finances for a business. This class will teach them how to navigate the
United States economy and how to be fiscally responsible. This will be essentially a financial
management class.
Section 4. Implementation
This bill will enact the following into law nationally immediately upon passing
In the case of 9-12 education, both public schools and charter schools will be obligated to
require all students to take part in at least two semesters of economic study. Private schools will
also be obligated to follow this rule.
In order to ensure neutrality an agency known as the Economic Education Bureau will monitor
teachers to ensure neutrality. At the end of every semester, students will be required to submit
an anonymous survey to rate if the teacher was neutral on economic issues. As well as this they
will randomly monitor classes in order to ensure neutrality. If the teacher scores less than a 60%
on the survey, they will conduct an inspection to decide if the teacher can continue to teach the
class. This agency is under the Department of Education.