141STCONGRESS
1STSESSION
H.R. 8
ToauthorizetheDirectoroftheUnitedStatesHolocaustMemorialMuseumtosupportHolocausteducation
programs,andforotherpurposes.
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
May 17, 2021
Mr.Gimenez(for himself,Mr. Ross-XuoIII, Ms.Bielanskiof
California, Mr.Goodman,Ms. Lu ofConnecticut,Mr. Reagan,Mr.
Atwaterof NewYork,) introducedthe following bill;
A BILL
To authorize the Director of the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum to support
Holocaust education programs, and for other purposes.
Beit enactedbythe SenateandHouse ofRepresentativesof theUnited Statesof
Americain Congressassembled,
Section 1.ShortTitle
This Act may be cited as the “Never Again Education Act”.

Sec. 2. Findings
The Congress finds the following:
(1) The United States has demonstrated a commitment to remembrance and education
about the Holocaust through bilateral relationships and engagement in international
organizations such as the United Nations and the International Holocaust
Remembrance Alliance; the United States works to promote Holocaust education as a
means to understand the importance of democratic principles, use and abuse of power,
and to raise awareness about the importance of genocide prevention today.
(2) The Congress has played a critical role in preserving the memory of the Holocaust
and promoting awareness, including by authorizing the United States Holocaust
Memorial Museum as an independent establishment of the Federal Government to
ensure that “the study of the Holocaust become part of the curriculum in every school
system in the country”, as well as by establishing a national Holocaust Remembrance
Day in 1978.
(3) 75 years after the conclusion of World War II, with the decreasing number of
eyewitnesses and growing distance of students and their families from this history, it
is important to institutionalize education about the events of the Holocaust such as the
German Nazis’ racist ideology, propaganda, and plan to lead a state to war and, with
their collaborators, kill millions—including the systematic murder of 6,000,000
Jewish people; as well as the persecution and murder of millions of others in the name
of racial purity, political, ideological, and behavioral grounds, among them Roma, the
disabled, the Slavs, Communists, Socialists, Jehovah’s Witnesses, and homosexuals.
(4) As intolerance, antisemitism, and bigotry are promoted by hate groups, Holocaust
education provides a context in which to learn about the danger of what can happen
when hate goes unchallenged and there is indifference in the face of the oppression of
others; learning how and why the Holocaust happened is an important component of
the education of citizens of the United States.
(5) Today, those who deny that the Holocaust occurred or distort the true nature of the
Holocaust continue to find forums, especially online; this denial and distortion
dishonors those who were persecuted, and murdered, making it even more of a
national imperative to educate students in the United States so that they may explore
the lessons that the Holocaust provides for all people, sensitize communities to the
circumstances that gave rise to the Holocaust, and help youth be less susceptible to

the falsehood of Holocaust denial and distortion and to the destructive messages of
hate that arise from Holocaust denial and distortion.
(6) Currently, 12 States (California, Connecticut, Florida, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky,
Michigan, New Jersey, New York, Oregon, Pennsylvania, and Rhode Island) require
by law that schools teach students about the Holocaust; more schools and teachers,
including those in underserved communities, can and should deliver quality Holocaust
education.
(7) For more than 30 years, the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum has worked
to build and support the field of Holocaust education, and advance the quality and
sustainability of Holocaust education at the local, State, and national levels, by
engaging teachers and students across disciplines and grade levels.
(8) The Federal Government, through support for educational activities of national
museums established under Federal law, can assist teachers in efforts to incorporate
historically accurate instruction on human rights atrocities, including the Holocaust,
in curricula.
Sec. 3. Definitions
In this Act:
(1). Anti Semitism.—
The term “antisemitism” means a certain perception of Jews, which may be expressed
as hatred toward Jews. Rhetorical and physical manifestations of antisemitism are directed
toward Jewish or non-Jewish individuals or their property, toward Jewish community
institutions and religious facilities.
(2). Director.—
The term “Director” means the Director of the United States Holocaust Memorial
Museum.
(3). Eligible program participant.—
The term “eligible program participant” means—
(A)a high school teacher, a teacher of one of the middle grades, or a school leader of a
high school or a school that includes one of the middle grades (as such terms are defined in
section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7801));

(B)an educational leader or expert who is not employed by a local educational agency
(as defined in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20
U.S.C. 7801)) or an elementary school or secondary school (as such terms are so defined)
that is independent of any local educational agency; or
(C)a prospective teacher enrolled in a program of postsecondary education
coursework or preservice clinical education.
(4) Holocaust.—
The term “the Holocaust” means the systematic, bureaucratic, state-sponsored
persecution and murder of 6,000,000 Jews by the Nazi regime and its allies and
collaborators. During the era of the Holocaust, German authorities also targeted other groups
because of their perceived “racial inferiority”, such as Roma, the disabled, and Slavs. Other
groups were persecuted on political, ideological, and behavioral grounds, among them
Communists, Socialists, Jehovah’s Witnesses, and homosexuals.
(5) Holocaust denial and distortion.—
The term “Holocaust denial and distortion” means discourse and propaganda that
deny the historical reality and the extent of the extermination of the Jews by the Nazis and
their accomplices during World War II, known as the Holocaust. Holocaust denial refers
specifically to any attempt to claim that the Holocaust did not take place. Holocaust
distortion refers to efforts to excuse or minimize the events of the Holocaust or its principal
elements, including collaborators and allies of Nazi Germany, to blame the Jews for causing
their own genocide, or to portray the Holocaust as a positive historical event.
(6) Holocaust education center.—
The term “Holocaust education center” means an institution that furthers the teaching
and learning about the Holocaust by offering programs for students and training for teachers
and other types of professional leadership audiences.
(7) Holocaust education program.—
The term “Holocaust education program” means a program that has as its specific and
primary purpose to improve awareness and understanding of the Holocaust and educate
individuals on the lessons of the Holocaust as a means to raise awareness about the
importance of preventing genocide, hate, and bigotry against any group of people.
Sec. 4. Program Authorized

(a) Authorization of appropriations.—
(i) There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this Act $2,000,000 for
fiscal year 2022 and each of the 4 succeeding fiscal years.
(b) Donations, gifts, bequests, and devices of property.—
(i) In accordance with chapter 23 of title 36, United States Code, and in
furtherance of the purposes of this Act, the Director is authorized to solicit,
accept, hold, administer, invest, and use donated funds and gifts, bequests, and
devices of property, both real and personal.
(c) Use of funds.—
(i) The Director, using funds appropriated under subsection (a) and resources
received under subsection (b), and including through the engagement of
eligible program participants as appropriate—
(1) shall develop and nationally disseminate accurate, relevant, and
accessible resources to promote understanding about how and why the
Holocaust happened, which shall include digital resources and may
include other types of resources, such as print resources and traveling
exhibitions; and
(2) may carry out one or more of the following Holocaust education
program activities:
a) Development, dissemination, and implementation of principles
of sound pedagogy for teaching about the Holocaust.
b) Provision of professional development for eligible program
participants, such as through—
i) local, regional, and national workshops;
ii) teacher trainings in conjunction with Holocaust
education centers and other appropriate partners;
iii) engagement with—
1) local educational agencies (as defined in section
8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education
Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 21 7801)); and
2) high schools and schools that include one of the
middle grades (as so defined) that are independent
of any local educational agency; and
iv) operation and expansion of a teacher fellowship program
to cultivate and support leaders in Holocaust education.

c) Engagement with State and local education leaders to encourage
the adoption of resources supported under this Act into curricula
across diverse disciplines.
d) Evaluation and research to assess the effectiveness and impact
of Holocaust education programs, which may include
completion of the report required under section 8.
(d) Applications.—
The Director may seek the engagement of an eligible program participant under
subsection (c) by requiring submission of an application to the Director at such time, in such
manner, and based on such competitive criteria as the Director may require.
Sec. 5.Online Holocaust education resources
(a) Website.—
The Director shall maintain on the website of the United States Holocaust Memorial
Museum a special section designated for Holocaust education resources to improve
awareness and understanding of the Holocaust and educate individuals on the lessons of the
Holocaust as a means to raise awareness about the importance of preventing genocide, hate,
and bigotry against any group of people. The website and resources shall be made publically
available.
(b) Information Distribution.—
The Director shall distribute information about the activities funded under this Act
through the website of the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, and shall respond to
inquiries for supplementary information concerning such activities.
(c). Best Practices.—
The information distributed by the Director shall include best practices for educators.
Sec. 6. United States Holocaust Memorial Council
The United States Holocaust Memorial Council established under section 2302 of title 36,
United States Code, shall have governance responsibility for the programs and activities
carried out under this Act in accordance with chapter 23 of title 36, United States Code.
Sec. 7. Engagement of eligible program participants
(a) In general.—
An eligible program participant shall be engaged at the discretion of the Director to
participate in Holocaust education program activities authorized under this Act and approved
by the Director pursuant to an application described in section 4(d).

(b) Engagement period.—
Engagement of eligible program participants under this Act shall be for a period
determined by the Director.
(c) Priority.—
In engaging eligible program participants under section 4, the Director shall give
priority to applications from such participants who work for or with a local
educational agency, or a school that is independent of any local educational agency,
that does not, at the time application is made, offer any Holocaust education
programming.
Sec. 8. Annual report
Not later than February 1 of each year, the Director shall submit to the Congress a report
describing the activities carried out under this Act.