VIRTUAL CONGRESS OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
April 24. 2020
Proposed by: Senator Miller (D-KY)
Co-Sponsors: Senator Seryne (R-MA-2)
AN ACT
To require Non-Federal prisons holding prisoners or detainees under a contract with the
Government to make the same information available to the public that Federal prisons are
required to make available.

Section 1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the ”Non-Federal Prison Information Act”.
Section 2. Definitions
In this Act—
(1) the term “non-Federal prison, correctional, or detention facility” means—
(A) a privately owned or privately operated prison, correctional, or detention
facility; or
(B) a State or local prison, jail, or other correctional facility.
Section 3.
(a) In General.—A record relating to a non-Federal prison, correctional, or detention facility
shall be—
(1) considered an agency record, whether in the possession of an applicable entity or a
covered agency; and
(2) subject to section 552 of title 5, United States Code (commonly known as the
“Freedom of Information Act”), to the same extent as if the record was maintained by an
agency operating a Federal prison, correctional, or detention facility.
(b) Withholding Of Information.—A covered agency may not withhold information that
would otherwise be required to be disclosed under subsection (a) unless,

(1) the covered agency, based on the independent assessment of the covered agency,
reasonably foresees that disclosure of the information would cause specific identifiable
harm to an interest protected by an exemption from disclosure.
(c) Format Of Records.—An applicable entity shall maintain records relating to a
non-Federal prison, correctional, or detention facility in formats that are readily reproducible and
reasonably searchable by the covered agency that contracts with provides funds to the applicable
entity to incarcerate or detain Federal prisoners or detainees in the non-Federal prison,
correctional, or detention facility.
(d) Regulations.—
(1) Not later than 2 months after the date of enactment of this Act, a covered agency
shall initiate regulations or guidance to ensure compliance with this section by the covered
agency and an applicable entity that the covered agency contracts with or provides funds to
incarcerate or detain Federal prisoners or detainees in a non-Federal prison, correctional, or
detention facility.
(2) COMPLIANCE.
(A) IN GENERAL.—Compliance with this section by an applicable entity shall
be included as a material term in any contract, agreement, or renewal of a contract or
agreement with the applicable entity regarding the incarceration or detention of Federal
prisoners or detainees in a non-Federal prison, correctional, or detention facility.
(B) Rule Of Construction. Nothing in this Act shall be construed to limit or reduce the
scope of State or local open records laws.