177TH CONGRESS
H.R.4
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
May 12, 2024
Introduced by Mr. Nord of Pacifica, for himself.
IN THE SENATE
Introduced by Mr. Sun of Olympia
A BILL
To invest in the research of breeder nuclear technology and nuclear fusion
technology in order to produce clean, efficient, reliable, and cheap energy, and to
further the efficient transition to clean energy sources.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the “Nuclear Research Investment Act of 2024”.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS
For the purposes of this act,
(a) “Fission Breeder Reactor” (hereinafter referred to as “FBR”s) refers to any
nuclear reactor that generates more fissile material than it consumes via the
transmutation of fertile isotopes.
(b) “Fusion Nuclear Reactor” (hereinafter referred to as “FNR”s) refers to any
power plant which produces energy by fusing atomic nuclei (such as
hydrogen) together.

(c) “The Secretary” shall refer to the United States Secretary of Energy.
(d) “The Department” shall refer to the United States Department of Energy.
(e) “The Under Secretary '' shall refer to The Under Secretary for Science and
Innovation in the United States Department of Energy.
SEC 3. RELEVANT PROVISIONS
The Secretary, through the Under Secretary, is hereby authorized to —
(1) enter into agreements or contracts with any Federal, State, or local
agency or private organization, including private research institutions
and universities, on behalf of the Department, for the purpose of
furthering the development and research of FNRs or FBRs;
(i) including but not limited to agreements with agencies where
clean energy is already part of their jurisdiction, or agencies
with nuclear energy, development, and research as their focus;
and that it is the sense of congress that the Secretary should
engage in such agreement with the Environmental Protection
Agency;
(2) award grants not exceeding $40,000,000 each to such federal, state,
or local agencies, or research institutions, to further the development
of FNRs or FBRs;
(3) maintain communication with those agencies and institutions to
avoid duplication of efforts, including and necessitating but not limited
to bi-annual updates on research efforts and development; and that the
Secretary, through the Under Secretary, shall review all updates before
authorizing renewals for the grants provided for in Section 3(2).
(4) use resources and personnel of The Department to conduct research
and further the development of FNRs or FBRs.
SEC. 4. SEVERABILITY
Should any portion of this Act be deemed invalid or unconstitutional for any
reason in a court with relevant jurisdiction, the rest of the Act, and the
application of the remaining provisions, shall not be affected.
SEC 5. APPROPRIATIONS

(a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—There is authorized to be appropriated
$200,000,000 for the fiscal year 2024 for the Department to carry out this
Act; $300,000,000 for fiscal years 2025 to 2028; and such sums as may be
necessary for fiscal years thereafter.
(b) The Department shall reduce public research spending on other nuclear
related projects by $100,000,000 for the fiscal years 2024-2028 and this
money shall be allocated to the research of FNRs and FBRs.
SEC. 6. EFFECTIVE DATE.
This Act shall take effect on the date that is 6 months after the date of
enactment of this Act.