180th CONGRESS
IN THE 180th CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES
August 27th, 2024
Ms.Kallis (for herself) introduced the following piece of legislation
To provide necessary funds for the radical reduction of unnecessary food waste, to
uplift and empower extant networks of food pantries and banks;
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE
a. This bill may be cited as the “Nutrition Network Act”.
SECTION 2. FINDINGS
a. The Congress finds:
i. that, in a given year, the United States may waste between thirty and
forty percent of the food it produces;
ii. that the United States produces over one hundred million tons of food
waste every year, destroying products and filling landfills with items
that may have otherwise fed hungry families and towns;

iii. that, of the over one hundred million tons of food wasted every year,
forty-three percent of that waste is produced by residential households
and another forty percent of that waste is produced by restaurants and
businesses, combined forming over four-fifths of all food waste;
iv. that the scale of the food waste produced by the nation is
unconscionable alongside its growing crisis of food deserts and under-
fed communities and must be drastically reduced.
SECTION 3. NUTRITION NETWORK MATCHING FUND
a. The Federal Government shall support the states’ nutrition networks, and
the operations hitherto specified in this act, by matching seventy-five percent
of all funds spent on qualifying items, up to $200,000,000 per state, annually.
b. State-level operations shall qualify for the above federal matching fund
should they undertake:
i. projects to curb food waste by means of;
1. a public educational program on food purchasing and usage
habits to decrease overall food waste;
2. a public educational program on knowing when food goes bad,
and what to look for when looking to purchase healthy food;
3. an educational program given to business, particularly food
service enterprises, on better purchasing and resource allocation
practices for the purpose of curbing overall food waste;
4. a donation center in an area where such donation center will
meaningfully provide resources for households and businesses
looking to offload food that would otherwise be wasted;
5. a donation service in an area where such donation service,
whether it be door-to-door pick-up or localized drop-offs, will
meaningfully provide resources for households and business
looking to offload food that would otherwise be wasted;
ii. projects to research food waste by means of;

1. an analysis or analyses of regional and local food purchasing
and usage habits, particularly if the end product outlines the
kinds of purchasing and usage habits that unnecessarily
produce food waste, both from households and businesses;
2. an experiment or series of experiments demonstrating new uses
for food waste that, if employed at larger scales, would
meaningfully curb food waste placed into landfills and allow for
secondary usage of the waste in question.
SECTION 4. PROGRAM MANAGEMENT
a. The Secretary of Natural Resources shall be responsible for managing,
coordinating, and overseeing the progress of the Nutrition Network Matching
Fund, and shall be charged with coordinating with the executives of each
state and, insomuch as it is needed, with their respective legislatures in the
deliverance and application of the matching funds provided above.
i. Within 90 days of the passage of this Act, the Secretary of Natural
Resources shall publicly post and deliver to the state executives an
application, whose sole purpose will be the application of the states for
federal matching funds for the Sec3(b) qualifying programs.
1. The application shall appropriately require the description of
state programs seeking funding, the amount of funds the state
intends to put into the qualifying program, the relative status of
the qualifying program— whether it be completely new or
already existent—, and the areas of application the state
believes the funds will be used for; unless otherwise stated, the
other aspects of the application are left to the discretion of the
Secretary of the Interior, who is encouraged to act with reason
and brevity in its creation as to not generate unnecessary
bureaucracy for the state and federal governments.

2. There shall be, within this application, a section dedicated to
funding renewals— programs and projects that previously
received funding and are again seeking funding. Applicants will
be required to itemize funds previously used by the qualifying
program, detailing the specific efforts to which amounts went,
and shall also be required to report the extent to which the
program’s goals were achieved and why further funding is
necessary at this time. Falsifying data and misleading the
Department of Interior in order to gain more funds shall be
subject to all relevant state and federal law.
a. While the repeated deliverance of funds is not expressly
prohibited, the Department of the Interior should
prioritize funds to programs currently underserved and
should not, in any case, continually deliver funds to
programs should that continued deliverance do little to
advance, improve, or otherwise achieve the goals and
spirit of this Act.
ii. States and their executives, and, principally, their respective cabinet
members charged with overseeing community health, food quality, and
food waste, shall keep the Department of the Interior privy to the
expansion and operation of qualifying programs and projects on a basis
they deem necessary and proper.
iii. Funds delivered from the matching fund may be delivered at the
beginning of every financial cycle, beginning with the first cycle after
the publishing of the application mentioned here in Sec4(a)(i).
SECTION 5. ENACTMENT
a. Should any portion of this act be found to be unconstitutional, illegal, or
otherwise incongruent with existent United States law, that portion or
portions shall be struck with all others remaining intact.

b. This act shall come into power immediately upon its signing.