140THCONGRESS
1STSESSION
H.R. 33
To guaranteeInternetprivacy rightsforall Americans, establishprivacyandsecurity
requirementsrelatingto personalinformation,andestablish anagency toenforcethem.
⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯
IN THE CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES
April 28, 2021
Mr. Moonguy(for himself, Rep LouLou and Rep.
Solomon) introduced the following bill;
⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯
A BILL
To guaranteeInternetprivacy rightsforall americans,establishprivacy andsecurity
requirementsrelatingto personalinformation,andestablish anagency toenforcethem.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in Congress
Assembled,
SEC. 1 — Short Title
1. This bill shall be referred to as the “Online Privacy and Security” Act.
SEC. 2 — Findings
In the context of this Act, Congress Finds that:
1. The Information rights and freedoms of Individuals are often unclear.
2. Companies often violate Information rights by: using invasive trackers on
the internet, having privacy controls hidden and disabled by default and
hiding search engine choice from consumers.
3. Surveys have Shown Privacy Rights to be one of the most important rights
they have.

4. Since 2018, The Federal government has done little to maintain such
rights.
5. Targeted advertisements have been proven to,in certain circumstances,
prey on the vulnerable and cause unnecessary trauma.
6. The movement of incorrect and incomplete information has hurt
individuals both in job prospects and credit ratings.
7. Data breaches have been shown to have immediate and harmful
consequences.
SEC. 3 — Definitions
1. The term “The Agency” Shall refer to the henceforth established Agency
for online Privacy and Security.
2. The term “The Director” Shall refer to the henceforth established Director
of the Agency for online Privacy and Security.
3. Targeted Advertising-
A. The Term “Targeted Advertising” shall refer to the processing of an
individual’s personal information, using an algorithm, model, or any
other means built using that individual’s personal information
collected over a period of time, or an aggregate of the personal
information of one or more Individuals and designed to—
a. Alter, influence, guide, or predict an individual’s behaviour.
b. Tailor or personalize a product or service.
c. Associate a certain product or service with things known to
be loved or hated by an Individual.
B. The Term “Targeted Advertising” shall not refer to the use of
historical personal information to prevent the display of or provide
additional information about previously accessed content, or to the
use of publicly available statistics of Information to guide
advertisement, or if the purposes algorithm for personalization are
clearly shown in bold letters in the front page of the website.
4. The Term “Location Tracking” shall refer to the processing of geographical
location, speed, or direction of a portable electronic device for the purposes
of collecting and storing said data.
5. The term “Collecting” shall refer to, with respect to personal information
or contents of communication, obtaining such information in any manner,
except when solely transmitting or transferring it.
6. The term “Disclose”, with respect to personal information or contents of
communication, shall refer to the sale, release, transfer, share,
disseminate, make available, or communication of such information to a
third party.

7. The term “Data breach” shall refer to an unauthorized access to or
acquisition of personal information or contents of communications
maintained by such covered entity.
8. The term “Data Sharing Abuse” shall refer to the processing, by a
third party, of personal information or contents of communications
disclosed by a covered entity to the third party, unless any individuals
or entities concerned shall grant consent to the disclosure.
9. The term “De-Identified Data” shall refer to any data that cannot
reasonably identify, relate to, describe, reference, be capable of being
associated with, or be linked, directly or indirectly, to a particular
individual or device.
10.The term “Re-Identification”, in the context of De-identified Data,
shall refer to the process of transforming formally De-Identified Data
into Non-De-Identified Data.
11. The term “Location Data” shall refer to any data gained through Location
Tracking, Or any other Data related to the historical or current
geographical location of any individual.
12.The Term “Biometric Data” shall refer to personal data relating to the
physical, physiological, or behavioural characteristics of a person, which
allows the unique identification of that person.
13.The Term “Facial Data” shall refer to Biometric Data related to the facial
appearance of a person.
14.The Term “Personal Information”, with respect to the obtaining and
communication of such information shall refer to Location, Biometric or
Facial Data, Any Data that would Reveal the Individual is In a Protected
Class, Or any other Data determined by the director to be sensitive and
vital enough to be protected under this act.
15.The Term “Facial Recognition” shall be defined as any service or product
that explicitly captures the facial data of any person.
16.The Term “Privacy Harm” shall refer to any harm done by an individual or
entity arising from the collection, processing, maintenance, or disclosure of
personal information, including Economic, physical, reputational or
psychological harm, adverse outcomes or decisions with respect to the
eligibility of an individual for rights, benefits, or privileges in employment,
credit and insurance, housing, education, professional certification, or the
provision of health care and related services, price discrimination or any
other negative effects that result from the data breach, as determined by
the Director.
17.The term “Protected class” shall refer to the actual or perceived Race,
Ethnicity, National Origin, Religion, Sexual Orientation, Gender Identity,
Familial Status, or Disability of an Individual.

18.The term “Third-Party” shall refer to an Individual or Entity that has
been disclosed personal information by a separate Individual or Entity
and is not that Individual or Entity, A subsidiary of that Entity, or a
service provider of that Individual or entity.
19.The term “The Website” shall refer to the henceforth established website
of the agency for online Privacy and Security.
SEC. 4 — Rights and Freedoms
1. The “Data Privacy Protection Act” Is hereby abolished.
2. Any entity or individual that intentionally collects, processes, or
maintains personal information and sends or receives such personal
information over the internet or a similar communications
network(Henceforth referred to as a data collector for the purposes of this
bill) shall Maintain the following rights and freedoms:
A. The right to know- Any data collector shall make available a
reasonable mechanism by which an individual may access:
a. Any personal information collected by the Data Collector, and
If it was not willingly given by the individual, how it was
collected.
b. A list of the third parties, subsidiaries, and corporate
affiliates, to which the data collector has disclosed or
obtained personal information on the individual from.
c. An explanation of the business and monetary intents the
data collector has with the data listed in subparagraphs (a)
and (b).
d. Any automated processes as per paragraph E.
e. Any other information determined to be vital to the
individual by the director.
B. The right to correct-
a. Any data collector shall make available a reasonable
mechanism by which an individual may:
(I)Dispute the accuracy or completeness of Personal
Information linked to such individuals that are maintained
by the data collector, And shown as per the right to know
mentioned in paragraph A of this Section.
(II)Request a correction to the data disputed under clause (I)
(III) See any new information of changes in the status of such
data.
(IV) Submit a request to the director for intervention if there
are disagreements on removal policy.
b. Upon receiving a dispute under clause I of the previous
paragraph, the data collector shall:

(I)Notify the Individuals on whether the data is correct or
complete, lacks the information to know whether the data is correct
or complete, or believes the data is incorrect or incomplete.
(II) If the data collector believes the data is incorrect or
incomplete, and the Individual requests to change it, the data
collector shall change the data they store within 60 days.
c. If there are reasonable disagreements on the state of the
data, as per clause(I) of paragraph(b) of this subsection, the
Individual is reserved the right to file a report staging the
data needed to be corrected to the director, and the director
may mandate the information be corrected. The director
shall, at all times, maintain public access to a form to which
such a report may be submitted, and post it on the website,
as per Section 7 of this act.
C. The right to be forgotten-
a. Any data collector shall make available a reasonable
mechanism by which an individual may request the deletion
of personal information and contents of communications of
such individual maintained by the data collector, including
any such information that the data collector acquired from a
third party or inferred from other information maintained by
the data collector, as per paragraph A.
b. Upon receiving a dispute under clause I of the previous
paragraph, the data collector shall:
(I)Notify the Individuals on whether the data is correct or
complete, lacks the information to know whether the data is correct
or complete, or believes the data is incorrect or incomplete.
(II) If the data collector believes the data is incorrect or
incomplete, and the Individual requests to delete it, the data
collector shall delete the data they store within 60 days.
c. If there are reasonable disagreements on the state of the
data, as per clause(I) of paragraph(b) of this subsection, the
Individual is reserved the right to file a report staging the
data needed to be corrected to the director, and the director
may mandate the data be deleted. The director shall, at all
times, maintain public access to a form to which such a
report may be submitted, and post it on the website, as per
Section 7 of this act.
D. The right of human review-
a. For any decision by a covered entity based solely on
automated processing of personal information of an
individual, if such processing increases reasonably

foreseeable significant privacy harms for such individual, the
data collector shall Inform such individual of what personal
information is or may be used for such decision and make
available a reasonable mechanism by which such individual
may request a human review of such decision.
b. If the Individual requests a human review of the results of
the processing, The Data collector shall ensure the
conducting of a human review within 30 days.
c. The Data collector may submit a request for extensions to the
director for human reviews, which the director may decide to
accept or not.
d. The director shall, at all times, maintain public access to a
form to which such a report may be submitted, and post it on
the website, as per Section 7 of this act.
E. The freedom from targeted advertisement-
a. A data collector shall not collect, process, maintain, or
disclose an individual’s personal information to create,
improve on, maintain or create an algorithm, model, or other
means designed for the creation of targeted advertising
without explicit permission from any individual.
b. For all websites, applications, programs, or services that run
targeted advertisements—
(I) Upon the creation of a new account, the setting(s) for
targeted advertising shall be off by default.
(II) At the end of a two month period upon the passage of this
bill, all currently existing accounts shall have the setting(s)
for targeted advertising be turned off.
(III) For any visitor to a website that is not logged-in to any
account, it shall be prohibited to present the visitor with any
targeted advertisements.
(IV) It shall be prohibited to discriminate against any user
based on their choice for the previously mentioned setting(s),
such as blocking off portions of the website in exchange for
the user turning the setting(s) on.
c. Any website that deals with targeted advertising shall, In
clear letters, On its front page, declare that it uses targeted
advertising.
3. The following exemptions from the rights listed in Paragraph 1 shall be
listed:
a. A data provider may request a “small business exclusion” from
enforcing any of the rights listed in paragraph 1. The Director shall

determine which businesses are “small businesses”, provided that
they do not earn any revenue from the sale of personal information,
have not, at any time during the preceding 6-month period,
maintained personal information of 250,000 or more individuals,
have fewer than 200 employees, and have received less than 25
million dollars in the past fiscal year. The director shall, at all
times, maintain public access to a form to which such a request may
be submitted, and post it on the website, as per Section 7 of this act.
b. These rights do not apply to data collected for the purposes of
detecting, responding to, or preventing security incidents or threats,
protecting against malicious software, complying with decisions by
law enforcement, court or other legal requirements, protecting
public safety, preventing data abuse by a banned individual, or
Routing a communication through a communications network or
resolving the location of a host or client on a communications
network.
c. These rights do not apply in cases where protection of these rights
requires the reidentification of previously de-identified data.
SEC. 5 — Other Restrictions on Data Collectors
1. It shall be prohibited for any data collector to request from the user more
data than is necessary for smooth operation of the product or service.
2. It shall be prohibited for companies to prohibit the user to change the
default search engine for any piece of software that utilizes one.
3. Any Privacy Policy, Terms of Use, EULA, or any similar legal contract
with a user must provide a short, accessible, clear, and simple summary of
all points included within the legal text and permissions granted by the
user so as to ascertain explicit consent, and be typed in a clear font with at
least 20% spacing between lines.
4. Once a data breach has been identified within a company, any and all
relevant authorities must be notified within 48 hours.
5. Any data collector may not intentionally disclose personal information
without including the purpose for which the personal information was
originally collected.
6. A Data-Collector shall not discriminate against a consumer based on the
fact that the consumer exercised any of their rights under section 4 of this
Act.
7. Notwithstanding Sections 1 and 6, consent is not required for a disclosure
(not including sale) of de-identified personal information where the
disclosed personal information is limited to the narrowest possible scope
likely to yield the intended benefit, provided they prohibit any attempts at

re-identification of said data and they do not contain any information that
would help Re-Identify said data.
8. A Data-Collector may not, under any circumstance, reidentify any data,
Nor allow a third party that they supply De-Identified Data to reidentify
said Data.
SEC. 6 — The Agency for Online Privacy and Security
1. There is hereby established under the Federal Trade Commission, a
governmental instrumentality of the U.S. Government, to act by its
authority under the title of The Agency for Online Privacy and Security.
2. There is hereby established a position of “The Director of The Agency for
Online Privacy and Security”, who shall serve as the head of the Agency.
3. The Director shall be nominated by the governor, with the advice and
consent of the Secretary of Internal affairs, And confirmed by the Senate
of the United States.
4. The Director, Unless removed from office by a majority vote of members of
both houses, Shall Serve A five-year term unless renominated.
5. The Director shall delegate a portion of their powers to a democratically
operating board of members(hereafter referred to as the board), as
appointed by the president, and confirmed by the United States Senate.
SEC. 7 — The Board of Members Powers and Duties
1. The Board shall have the power to—
a. Adopt an official seal;
b. Sue and be sued in its own name;
c. Make contracts and execute all instruments necessary or
convenient for the carrying on of the purposes of this bill.
d. Acquire, own, hold, dispose of and encumber personal, real or
intellectual property of any nature or any interest related to its
duties therein.
e. Appoint officers, engage and employ employees, including legal
counsel, consultants, agents and advisors and prescribe their duties
and fix their compensations.
f. Make, amend and repeal by-laws, rules and regulations for the
management of its affairs.
g. Prescribe rules and issue orders and guidance, as may be necessary
or appropriate to enable the Agency to administer and carry out the
purposes and objectives of this Act, and to prevent evasions thereof.
2. The Board shall-
a. Create a website, which shall host information about the operations
of the Agency, as well as contain any and all forms for requests or
reports specified in this Act.

b. Create an academic unit, to track research, and decide whether
restrictions on the conduction of research should be added or
removed.
c. Create a small business unit, to handle all small business
exceptions present in this Act.
SEC. 8 — Audits
1. The Secretary of Internal Affairs shall order a semi-annual audit into the
operations of the Agency, ensuring they remain loyal to the purposes and
text of this Act.
SEC. 9 — Enactment
2. Should any part of this bill be considered unconstitutional and struck, all
other sections shall remain valid.
3. For any section of any bill that contradicts any section of this act, the
contradictory section of the previous bill shall be struck and nullified.
4. This bill shall go into effect no more than one year after passage by
congress and the signature of the President of the United States.