1
135THCONGRESS
1STSESSION
H.R. 29
To amend the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970.
⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯
IN THE CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES
November 27, 2020
Mr. JOHNSON of Pennsylvania and Mr. MORALES (for
themselves, Mr. LIGHTWOOD, and Mr. SOMEONE) introduced
the following bill;
⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯
A BILL
To amend the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970.
Be it enacted by the House of Representatives in Congress Assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the “OSHA Amendments Act of 2020”.
SEC. 2. AMENDMENTS TO THE OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH ACT OF
1970.
(a) Section 3(5) (29 U.S.C. 652(5)) is amended to read as follows:
“The term “employer” means a person engaged in a business affecting commercewho
has employees, including the United States, State, and political subdivisionof a State.”
(b) Section 5 (29 U.S.C. 654) is amended to read as follows:
“(a) Each employer-

2
“(1) shall furnish to each of his employees employment and a place of
employment which are free from recognized hazards that are causing or are likely to
cause death or serious physical harm to his employees;
“(2) shall comply with occupational safety and health standardspromulgated
under this chapter.
“(b) Each employee shall comply with occupational safety and health standardsand all
rules, regulations, and orders issued pursuant to this chapter which are applicable to his own
actions and conduct.
(c) Section 8(c)(1) (29 U.S.C. 657(c)(1)) is amended by inserting the following at the end:
“These requirements shall include provisions requiring employers to post for employees
or other individuals performing work for the employer information on the protections afforded
under section 11(c).”
(d) Section 8(c)(2) (29 U.S.C. 657(c)(2)) is amended to read as follows:
“The Secretary, in cooperation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, shall
prescribe regulations requiring employers to maintain accurate records of, and to make periodic
reports on, work-related deaths, injuries and illnessesother than minor injuries requiring only
first aid treatment and which do not involve medical treatment, loss of consciousness, restriction
of work or motion, or transfer to another job. Such regulationsshall include requiring
site-controlling employers to keep and maintain a site log for all recordable injuries and illnesses
occurring among all employees, independent contractors, and others who are performing workat
the particular site. Such regulations shall require employers to promptly inform the Secretary of
any work-related death, injury, or illness that results in the in-patient hospitalization of an
employee for medical treatment. Such regulations shall prohibit the employer from adopting or
implementing policies or practices by the employer that discourage or otherwise limitaccurate
recordkeeping and the reporting of work-related injuries or illnessesby any employee orin any
manner discriminates or provides for adverse action againstany employee for reporting a
work-related injury or illness. For purposes of this paragraph, the term ‘site-controlling
employer’ means the employer that has primary control over a work site at which employees
work.”
(e) Section 11(c)(1) (29 U.S.C. 660(c)(1)) is amended to read as follows:
“(1) No person shall discharge or in any manner discriminate against any employee
because—

3
“(a) Such employee has filed any complaint or instituted or caused to be instituted
any proceeding under or related to this chapter;”
“(b) Has testified or is about to testify in any such proceeding relating tosafety or
health;”
“(c) Of the exercise by such employee on behalf of himself or others of anyright
afforded by this chapter.”
(f) Section 17 (29 U.S.C. 666) is amended to read as follows:
“(a) Willful or repeated violation”
“Any employer who willfully or repeatedly violates the requirements ofsection
654 of this title, any standard, rule, or order promulgated pursuant to section 655of this
title, or regulations prescribed pursuant to this chapter may be assessed a civil penalty of
not more than $100,000 for each violation, but not less than $10,000 foreach willful
violation. In determining whether a violation is repeated, the employer’s history of
violations under this Act and under State occupational safety and health plans shall be
taken into consideration by the Secretary or Commission.. If such a willful or repeated
violation caused or contributed to the death of an employee, such civil penalty amounts
shall be increased to not more than $200,000 for each such violation, but not less than
$50,000 for each such violation, except that for an employer with 25 or fewer employees
such penalty shall not be less than $25,000 for each such violation.”
“(b) Citation for serious violation”
“Any employer who has received a citation for a serious violation of the
requirements of section 654 of this title, of any standard, rule, or order promulgated
pursuant to section 655 of this title, or of any regulations prescribed pursuant to this
chapter, shall be assessed a civil penalty of up to $10,000 for each such violation. If such
violation caused or contributed to the death of an employee, such civil penalty amounts
shall be increased to not more than $50,000.”
“(c) Citation for violation determined not serious”
“Any employer who has received a citation for a violation of the requirements of
section 654 of this title, of any standard, rule, or order promulgated pursuant tosection
655 of this title, or of regulations prescribed pursuant to this chapter,and such violation is
specifically determined not to be of a serious nature, may be assessed a civil penalty of up
to $10,000 for each such violation.”
“(d) Failure to correct violation”

4
“Any employer who fails to correct a violation for which acitation hasbeen
issued under section 658(a) of this title within the period permitted for its correction
(which period shall not begin to run until the date of the final order of the Commissionin
the case of any review proceeding under section 659 of this title initiated by the employer
in good faith and not solely for delay or avoidance of penalties), may beassessed a civil
penalty of not more than $10,000 for each day during which such failure or violation
continues.”
“(e) Willful violation causing death to employee”
“Any employer who willfully violates any standard, rule,or order promulgated
pursuant to section 655 of this title, or of any regulations prescribed pursuant to this
chapter, and that violation caused deathto any employee, shall, upon conviction,be
punished by a fine of not more than $10,000 or by imprisonment for not more than six
months, or by both; except that if the conviction is for a violation committed after afirst
conviction of such person, punishment shall be by a fine of not more than $20,000 or by
imprisonment for not more than one year, or by both.”
“(f) Giving advance notice of inspection”
“Any person who gives advance notice of any inspection to be conductedunder
this chapter, without authority from the Secretary or his designees, shall, upon conviction,
be punished by a fine of not more than $1,000 or by imprisonment for not more than six
months, or by both.”
“(g) False statements, representations or certification”
“Whoever knowingly makes any false statement, representation, or certification in
any application, record, report, plan, or other document filed or required to be maintained
pursuant to this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not morethan
$10,000, or by imprisonment for not more than six months, or by both.”
“(h) Violation of posting requirements”
“Any employer who violates any of the posting requirements, as prescribed under
the provisions of this chapter, shall be assessed a civil penalty of up to $10,000 for each
violation.”
“(i) Authority of Commission to assess civil penalties”
“The Commission shall have authority to assess all civil penalties provided in this
section, giving due consideration to the appropriateness of the penalty with respect to the
size of the business of the employer being charged, the gravity of the violation, the good
faith of the employer, and the history of previous violations.”
“(j) Determination of serious violation”

5
“For purposes of this section, aserious violation shall be deemed toexist in a
place of employment if there is a substantial probability that death or serious physical
harm could result from a condition which exists, or from one or morepractices, means,
methods, operations, or processes whichhave been adopted or are in use, insuch place of
employment unless the employer did not, and couldnot with the exercise ofreasonable
diligence, know of the presence of the violation.”
“(k) Procedure for payment of civil penalties”
“Civil penalties owed under this chapter shallbe paid to the Secretary fordeposit
into the Treasury of the United States and shallaccrue to the United States and may be
recovered in a civil action in the name of the United States brought in the United States
district court for the district where the violation is alleged to have occurred orwhere the
employer has its principal office.”
SEC. 3 ENACTMENT.
EFFECTIVE DATE.— The amendments made by Section 2 shall take effect onJanuary 1st,
2021.