- 1 -
173rd
CONGRESS
S.2
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
JANUARY 18, 2024
Introduced by Sen. Pluribus, for themself, Sen. Harris-Charest, and Senator Oliver
Hersey.
A BILL
To extend the authority to provide employees of the United States Secret Service
with overtime pay beyond other statutory limitations, and for other purposes.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. Short Title
This Act shall be cited as the “Overtime Pay for Protectives Services Extension”
Act of 2024.
SEC. 2. EXTENSION OF OVERTIME PAY EXCEPTION THROUGH 2028 FOR
PROTECTIVE SERVICES.
(a) AMENDMENTS.—Section 2 of the Overtime Pay for Protective Services Act
of 2016 (5 U.S.C. 5547 note) is amended—
(1) in the section heading, by striking “2023” and inserting “2028”;
(2) in subsection (a)—
(A) in the subsection heading, by striking “DEFINITION” and
inserting “DEFINITIONS”;
(B) by striking “In this section, the term” and inserting the
following: “In this section—

- 2 -
“(1) the term”; and
(C) by striking “2023.” and inserting the following: “2028; and
“(2) the term ‘protective services’ does not include routine
administrative or technical work that supports the daily operations of
the United States Secret Service.”; and
(3) in subsection (b)(1), by striking “during each of calendar years 2016
through 2023” and inserting “for protective services during each of calendar
years 2016 through 2028”.
(b) RETROACTIVE EFFECTIVE DATE.—If this Act is enacted after December 31,
2023, the amendments made by subsection (a) shall take effect as if enacted on
December 31, 2023.
(c) REPORTS.—
(1) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection:
(A) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CONGRESS.—The term
“appropriate committees of Congress” means—>
(i) The Committee on General Legislation of the House of
Representatives;
(ii) the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of
Representatives;
(iii) the Committee on Ethics and Oversight of the House of
Representatives;
(iv) the Committee on General Welfare of the Senate;
(v) the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate;
(vi) the Committee on Relations of the Senate.

- 3 -
(B) DIRECTOR.—The term “Director” means the Director of the
United States Secret Service.
(2) REPORT ON PLANS TO REDUCE OVERTIME USAGE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days after the date of
enactment of this Act, the Director shall submit to the appropriate
committees of Congress a report describing the steps that the United
States Secret Service is taking to address the increased protective
service demands placed upon United States Secret Service personnel.
(B) ELEMENTS.—The report required under subparagraph (A)
shall include the following:
(i) An analysis of the current (as of the date on which the
report is submitted) operational demands and staffing levels with
respect to the United States Secret Service.
(ii) Recommended strategies for reducing overtime
requirements for United States Secret Service personnel,
including—
(I) the appointment of additional personnel;
(II) solutions such that sufficient resources are available
throughout each year without the need for exceptions to, or
waivers of, premium pay limitations;
(III) the redistribution of workload among United States
Secret Service personnel; and
(IV) other improvements in operational efficiency with
respect to the United States Secret Service.
(3) ANNUAL PROJECTIONS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—
(i) REQUIREMENT.—In accordance with the schedule
described in clause (ii), the Director shall submit to the
appropriate committees of Congress a report that contains

- 4 -
projections for the information described in paragraphs (1) through
(7) of section 2(c) of the Secret Service Recruitment and Retention
Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–160; 132 Stat. 1246), which shall be
divided by calendar quarter.
(ii) SCHEDULE DESCRIBED.—The schedule described in
this clause is as follows:
(I) Not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of
this Act, a report with respect to calendar year 2024.
(II) Not later than December 31 of each of calendar years
2024 through 2027, a report with respect to the calendar year
following the calendar year in which the report is submitted.
(B) QUARTERLY UPDATES.—With respect to each annual report
required under subparagraph (A), the Director shall, on the last day of
each calendar quarter of the calendar year that is covered by the
report, submit to the appropriate committees of Congress an updated
version of that report that contains projections for the information
described in that subparagraph for the remainder of that calendar
year, which shall be divided by calendar quarter.
(C) DEEMING OF PERIOD.—Solely for the purposes of a report
required under this paragraph, a reference in any of paragraphs (1)
through (7) of section 2(c) of the Secret Service Recruitment and
Retention Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–160; 132 Stat. 1246) to a
numerical value for a previous calendar year shall be deemed to be a
projection of that numerical value for an upcoming calendar year or for
the remainder of a calendar year, as applicable.
(4) EFFECT OF AMENDMENTS.—Not later than January 30 of each
of calendar years 2025 through 2029, the Director shall submit to the
appropriate committees of Congress a report on the effects of the

- 5 -
amendments made by subsection (a), which shall include, with respect to
the calendar year preceding the calendar year in which the report is
submitted, the following:
(A) The information described in paragraphs (1) through (7) of
section 2(c) of the Secret Service Recruitment and Retention Act of
2018 (Public Law 115–160; 132 Stat. 1246).
(B) A comparison between the final data reported under
subparagraph (A) and the annual projections reported for that calendar
year under paragraph (3)(A), including an explanation for any
substantial variance between that final data and those annual
projections.