S. 7
To increase law enforcement training revolving around the matter
of Post Traumatic Stress Disorder.
⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯
IN THE UNITED STATES SENATE
May 18th, 2022
Mr. DiCarlo (for himself),
introduces the following Act:
AN ACT
To increase law enforcement training revolving the matter of Post
Traumatic Stress Disorder.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America Assembled.
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE
a. This bill shall be referred to as the “Post Traumatic Stress Disorder and Traumatic
Brain Injury Law Enforcement Training Act”.
SECTION 2. FINDINGS
a. There has been little to no widespread training regarding the mental health disorder
known as PTSD and TBI.
SECTION 3. DEFINITIONS
a. “Post Traumatic Stress Disorder” shall be defined as a mental health condition
that develops following a traumatic event characterized by intrusive thoughts about
the incident, recurrent distress/anxiety, flashback, and avoidance of similar
situations.

b. “Traumatic Brain Injury” shall be defined as a form of acquired brain injury,
occurring when a sudden trauma causes damage to the brain.
SECTION 4. PROVISIONS
a. In General.—Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this section,
the Attorney General, acting through the Director of the Bureau of Justice
Assistance, in consultation with the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention and the Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and Substance Use, shall
solicit best practices regarding techniques to interact with persons who have
traumatic brain injury, acquired brain injury, or post-traumatic stress disorder from
first responder, brain injury, veteran, and mental health organizations, health care
and mental health providers, hospital emergency departments, and other relevant
stakeholders, and shall develop crisis intervention training tools for use by first
responders
1. Information on the conditions and symptoms of traumatic brain injury,
acquired brain injury, and post-traumatic stress disorder;
2. techniques to interact with persons who have a traumatic brain injury, an
acquired brain injury, or post-traumatic stress disorder; and
3. information on how to recognize persons who have a traumatic brain injury,
an acquired brain injury, or post-traumatic stress disorder.
SECTION 5. ENACTMENT
a. EFFECTIVE DATE.— This bill shall go into effect upon the 11th day of the month
following passage.