H.R.12
To expand the access and usage of pre-exposure prophylaxis.
——————————————————
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES OF THE
UNITED STATES
February 27th, 2023
Mrs. Kallis (for herself,) introduced the following bill;
—————————————————————————————————
A BILL
To expand the access and usage of pre-exposure prophylaxis.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the “PrEP Access Act.”
SEC. 2. FINDING.
The Congress of the United States, in the context of the passage
of this act, finds that access to PrEP treatment remains a vital issue in
many communities, particularly rural ones, across the United States.
SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.
(a) “DEPARTMENT”, DEFINED.—In this act, the term “Department”
may be defined as the Department of Health and Human
Services.
(b) “SECRETARY”, DEFINED.—In this act, the term “Secretary” may
be defined as the Secretary of Health and Human Services .
(c) “RURAL HEALTH CLINIC”, DEFINED.—In this act, the term “rural
health clinic” may be defined as any health clinic in a rural area.
(d) “RURAL AREA”, DEFINED.—In this act, the term “rural area”
may be defined as any non-urban area, as defined by the U.S.
Census Bureau.
(e) “STATE”, DEFINED.—In this act, the term “State” may be defined
as any state, territory of the United States, and the District of
Columbia.

(f) “CHIEF HEALTH AGENCY”, DEFINED.—In this act, the term
“chief health agency” may be defined as the Department,
Agency, or Division which the Secretary deems as the main
operative Department, Agency, or Division of a government of a
state which is tasked with carrying out the laws related to
health and welfare of that state.
(g) “PREP TREATMENT”, DEFINED.—In this act, the term “PrEP
treatment” may be defined as pre-exposure prophylaxis used to
treat human immunodeficiency virus and autoimmune
deficiency syndrome.
SEC. 4. RURAL ACCESS PROGRAM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall establish the “PrEP Rural
Access Program” (hereinafter referred to in this section as the
“Program”) for the purposes of distributing, under the provisions
of this section, to rural health clinics, PrEP treatment.
(b) DISTRIBUTION.—
(1) APPLICATION.—The Secretary shall promulgate an
application, which shall be made readily available, in
online and physical form, for rural health clinics to apply
to receive PrEP treatments. The information included to
be required in the application shall be at the discretion of
the Secretary.
(2) ACCEPTANCE AND DETERMINATION.—
(A)IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall decide whether
or not to accept the application and distribute PrEP
treatments to the rural health clinic.
(B)AMOUNT.—The Secretary shall determine an
amount of available PrEP treatments to distribute,
to the rural health clinic, using readily available
and relevant information, including but not limited
to the population of the area within a ten mile
radius of the rural health clinic.
(C)DISTRIBUTION.—Once the number under
subparagraph (B) has been determined, the
Secretary shall distribute the total amount of PrEP
treatment, to the rural health clinic, alongside
being authorized to distribute money, from the
program, for the purpose of related expenditures,
for the purpose of distributing the PrEP treatment
to individuals.
(3) HOTSPOTS.—
(A)IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall be authorized to
determine hotspots, in rural areas, in which

individuals are more prone to the transmission of
human immunodeficiency virus infection and
acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.
(B)DISTRIBUTION WITHIN HOTSPOTS.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—After determining a hotspot,
the Secretary shall be authorized to
distribute PrEP treatment to rural health
clinics within a five mile radius of the
hotspot, alongside being authorized to
distribute money from the program, for the
purpose of related expenditures, for the
purpose of distributing the PrEP treatment,
without an application.
(ii) LIMITATION.—No rural health clinic shall be
distributed PrEP treatment, or disbursed
money for the purpose of related
expenditures, under this paragraph, without
being alerted, from the Secretary, at least
two weeks in advance, with the requirements
for usage pursuant to subsection (b)(3)(C) of
this act and providing explicit consent to the
Secretary.
(C)REQUIREMENTS.—The Secretary shall promulgate
and publish a list of restrictions and requirements
for spending the money distributed under this Act.
(c) NON-HOTSPOT AREAS.—It shall be within the discretion of the
Secretary, or someone who they designate, to attempt to coach
applications from rural health clinics to expand access to PrEP
treatment.
(d) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall, within the program,
establish a fund to educate rural health clinics, and the
professionals within, on how to properly and efficiently
administer PrEP treatment.
(e) FUND PROGRAM.—In conjunction with section 5(a), the
Secretary shall—
(1) hire professionals to travel and education on treatment;
(2) establish online courses at various levels; and
(3) take other steps that the Secretary deems proper to
education professionals on the administration of PrEP
treatment under this section.

SEC. 6. APPROPRIATIONS.
There is authorized to be appropriated a sum not exceeding
$2,000,000,000.00 to the Secretary of Health and Human Services each
fiscal year, for the purposes of carrying out the provisions of this act.
SEC. 7. SUPREMACY.
For any provision of any statute that contradicts any section of
this act, the contradictory provision of that statute shall be struck and
nullified.
SEC. 8. SEVERABILITY.
The provisions of this act are severable. If any section,
subsection, paragraph, subparagraph, clause, subclause, provision, or
amendment made by the application of this act is deemed
unconstitutional or unenforceable, it shall be struck. The remaining
sections, subsections, paragraphs, subparagraphs, clauses, and
subclauses, provisions, or amendments made by the application of this
act shall remain valid, enforceable, and in effect.
SEC. 9. ENACTMENT.
The provisions of this Act shall go into effect immediately upon
passage.