- 1 -
179
th CONGRESS
H.R.19
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
July 24, 2024
Introduced by Mr. Pluribus (for themself,
IN THE SENATE:
A BILL
To establish a program to make grants for the establishment of prison libraries.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
(a) This Act may be cited as the “Prison Library Grants Establishment Act of
2024.”
SEC. 2. ESTABLISHMENT.
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Attorney
General shall establish a program to make grants to eligible applicants for the
purpose of providing library services to incarcerated individuals in order to advance
reintegration efforts, reduce recidivism, and increase educational opportunities.
SEC. 3. ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA.
An eligible grantee under this Act is any State or territory that submits an
application that includes the following:

- 2 -
(1) A comprehensive plan for how the grant will be used, including
project objectives, program design, and evaluation process.
(2) Proof of the existence of a physical library at a correctional facility
or the intention of creating one.
(3) Data on the demographics of the population of the facility sufficient
to demonstrate a compelling need for funding, including educational level
of prison population, rates of recidivism, socioeconomic breakdown of the
prison population or any other relevant data.
SEC. 4. USE OF FUNDS.
Grant amounts shall be used to provide library services to incarcerated
individuals as set forth in section 2, and may include usage for any of the following:
(1) Education and job training.
(2) Acquisition of modern materials and equipment that reflect the
interests, identities, abilities, and languages of the prison population.
(3) Expansion of the infrastructure of prison libraries to be less
restrictive, safety permitted, and more welcoming with design and decor.
(4) Hiring of qualified librarians and staff to manage the libraries,
their resources, and services and serve as the social coordinator for
organized activities and events, and who hold the following qualifications:
(A) Have practical library management experience.
(B) Demonstrated ability to catalogue, archive, and maintain
databases and E-resources.

- 3 -
(C) Demonstrated ability to organize weekly, bi-weekly, and
monthly events and activities.
(5) Literary training.
(6) Digital literacy training.
(7) Career readiness programming.
(8) Civic engagement programs.
(9) Restorative justice programs.
(10) Resident led programs.
(11) Health and wellness activities.
(12) Computer (including laptops) and internet access.
(13) Book discussion programs.
(14) Language services, including free English classes.
(15) Audiobooks and accessible reading materials for the visually
impaired and print disabled.
(16) eBooks.
(17) Management of book donation programs.
(18) Audio and visual materials or multimedia.
(19) Artistic programing such as painting, creative writing, poetry
slams, drama, or music.

- 4 -
(20) Financial literacy.
(21) Family literacy activities facilitated during in-person visits.
(22) Resource fairs.
(23) Making reasonable efforts towards building a working relationship
with local public libraries, including—
(A) adoption of a standardized guideline for library management;
(B) sharing of resources and materials through an interlibrary
loan arrangement; and
(C) implementation of coordinated organized events and activities.
SEC. 5. PROHIBITED USES.
Grant amounts may not be used for the following:
(1) Purchasing food, clothes, shoes, or hygiene supplies.
(2) Payment of employee salary and benefits unassociated with prison
libraries.
(3) Physical and mental care for incarcerated individuals.
(4) incarcerated individual transportation.
(5) Staff training unrelated to the library services.
(6) General administrative functions or operations of the prison.

- 5 -
(7) Facility maintenance aside from the libraries.
(8) Other obligations imposed on the facility by law, including
establishment of maintenance of a law library.
(9) Any other use unrelated to library services, resources, and
management.
SEC. 6. PRIORITIZATION.
The Attorney General shall, in making grants under this Act, comply with the
following:
(1) The Attorney General shall prioritize making awards to grantees
that are the following:
(A) Applicants that follow local and or national standards and
guidelines for library management.
(B) Applicants that add or prioritize post-secondary education
curriculum to library programming.
(C) Applicants with plans for tangible, positive, and measurable
impact for their prison population, including—
(i) plans for increasing literacy rates;
(ii) plans for increased secondary and post-secondary
enrollment and graduation rates;
(iii) plans for development of technical and vocational skills;

- 6 -
(iv) plans for expanded access to employment opportunities
post-release; and
(v) any other factors that the Attorney General determines
appropriate.
(D) Applicants with plans for numerous initiatives to maximize
benefits and services for their prison population.
(2) The Attorney General shall ensure geographic diversity as between
grantees with regard to the States and territories and between urban and
rural areas.
(3) The Attorney General shall establish a reporting system to monitor
progress, performance, and expenditures of grantees.
SEC. 7. TERM.
A grant under this Act shall be for a term of one year, and may be renewed annually
for a period of not more than 6 years in total.
SEC. 8. REPORTING.
Grantees shall submit annual performance measures, including library activity
statistics and program outcomes, and expenditure reports to systems established by
the Attorney General under section 6(4).
SEC. 9. CONDITIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—A grantee may not charge a fee to any incarcerated
individual for the following:
(1) Access to physical books.

- 7 -
(2) Access to eBook and audiobooks.
(3) Access to computers (including laptops) and the internet within the
library.
(4) Access to educational and artistic materials needed to facilitate
learning, training, and or activities, including notebooks, pens, pencils,
paints, and similar supplies.
(5) Printing services.
(6) Any other library services or resources.
(b) AVAILABILITY FOR EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMMING.—A grantee shall make the
library space available to post-secondary organizations and personnel for
educational programming.
SEC. 10. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this Act $16,000,000 for
each of fiscal month periods 2024 through 2026.