S. 5
To end the harmful practice of conversion therapy and promote
the safety and well-being of LGBTQ+ youth.
IN THE SENATE
August 18, 2023
Mrs. Dawson-Lockhart (for herself, ) introduced the following
bill, on behalf of the Rosen Administration, as authored by
President Rosen;
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress assembled,
A BILL

1. SECTION 1.SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the "Protect LGBTQ+ Youth Act".
2. SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
2.1. FINDINGS.—
Congress finds the following:
(1) Conversion therapy, also known as "reparative therapy,"
"ex-gay therapy," or "sexual orientation change eorts,"
encompasses a range of dangerous and discredited
practices that falsely claim to change a person's sexual
orientation or gender identity or expression.
(2) Such practices have been rejected by every mainstream
medical and mental health organization, including the
American Psychiatric Association, the American
Psychological Association, the American Medical
Association, and the National Association of Social
Workers.
(3) Minors are especially vulnerable to the harms caused by
conversion therapy.
(4) Conversion therapy has been linked to higher rates of
depression, anxiety, substance abuse, homelessness, and
suicide among LGBTQ+ youth.
(5) LGBTQ+ youth should be supported and armed, not
subjected to harmful and discredited practices.
3. SEC. 3. PURPOSE.
The purpose of this Act is to protect LGBTQ+ youth from
conversion therapy by prohibiting the practice in all health care
settings and providing support and resources for LGBTQ+
youth.
4. SEC. 4. DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this Act:
(a) "Conversion therapy" means any practices or treatments
that seek to change an individual's sexual orientation or
gender identity, including eorts to change behaviors or
gender expressions or to eliminate or reduce sexual or
romantic attractions or feelings toward individuals of the
same gender.
(b) "Health care provider" means any person licensed or
certified by the State to provide health care or
professional services.
(c) "LGBTQ+" refers to individuals who identify as lesbian,
gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, or other non-
heteronormative sexual orientations or gender identities.
5. SEC. 5. PROHIBITION ON CONVERSION THERAPY.
Page 1 / 3

5.1. IN GENERAL.—
No health care provider shall engage in conversion therapy with
a person under the age of 18.
5.2. DISCIPLINARY ACTION.—
Any health care provider who engages in conversion therapy in
violation of subsection (a) shall be subject to appropriate
disciplinary action by the relevant licensing entity or disciplinary
board.
6. SEC. 6. EDUCATION AND AWARENESS CAMPAIGN.
The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall establish a
national education and awareness campaign to inform the public
about the harms of conversion therapy and the rights of
LGBTQ+ individuals.
7. SEC. 7. TRAINING AND RESOURCES FOR HEALTH CARE
PROVIDERS.
The Secretary of Health and Human Services, in consultation
with organizations that provide health care to LGBTQ+ youth,
shall develop and disseminate training materials and resources
to health care providers on the health needs of LGBTQ+ youth
and the harms associated with conversion therapy.
8. SEC. 8. SUPPORT SERVICES FOR LGBTQ+ YOUTH.
The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall establish a
program to provide support services to LGBTQ+ youth,
including mental health services, suicide prevention eorts, and
resources to help youth understand and express their gender
identity and sexual orientation in a healthy way.
9. SEC. 9. DATA COLLECTION AND REPORTING.
9.1. DATA COLLECTION.—
The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall collect data
on the prevalence and eects of conversion therapy.
9.2. REPORTING.—
The Secretary shall submit an annual report to Congress on the
data collected under subsection 9.1.
10. SEC. 10. ENFORCEMENT.
Any individual who suers harm as a result of a violation of this
Act may bring a civil action in an appropriate district court of the
Page 2 / 3

United States for equitable relief, including an injunction or order
for the cessation of the violation, or for damages.
11. SEC. 11. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
There is authorized to be appropriated $30,000,000 for each of
the fiscal years 2023 through 2028 to carry out this Act.
12. SEC. 12. SEVERABILITY.
If any provision of this Act, or the application of such provision
to any person or circumstance, is held to be unconstitutional, the
remainder of this Act, or the application of the provisions of this
Act to any person or circumstance, shall not be aected thereby.
13. SEC. 13. EFFECTIVE DATE.
This Act shall take eect on the date that is 180 days after the
date of its enactment.
Page 3 / 3