VIRTUAL CONGRESS
OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
February 16th. 2020
Secretary of the Interior Waffles (D-RI)
Co-Sponsors:
Secretary of the Environment Chief of Staff McKenna (D-CA)
Enshtein (R-WA)
Secretary of HS Harris (R-MD)
Congressman Kristensen (D-MA)
Attorney General Helvin (R-MO)
Congresswoman Seryne (D-MA)
HHS Secretary Vita (I-PR)
Congressman Wonder(D-NJ)
A BILL
To encourage recycling and reduction of disposable plastic bottles in units of the National
Park System, and for other purposes.
Section 1.
Short title.
This Act may be cited as the Reducing Waste in the National Parks Act.
Section 2.
Disposable plastic bottle recycling and reduction in units of the National Park System
(a) Program for recycling and reduction of disposable plastic bottles in units of the NPS
Each regional director concerned shall establish in such unit of the National Park System a
program for recycling and reduction of disposable plastic bottles, including, if applicable,

elimination of the sale of water in disposable plastic bottles under subsection (b).
(b) Elimination of sale of water in disposable plastic bottles
(1) In general
Each regional director concerned may eliminate the sale of water in disposable plastic bottles
in such unit of the National Park System after consideration of the following factors with
respect to such unit:
(A)The costs and benefits to the overall operations.
(B)The amount of waste that would be eliminated.
(C)The infrastructure costs and funding sources for bottle refill stations.
(D) Any contractual implications with respect to concessioners, including considerations
of new leaseholder surrender interest or pos ses sory interest.
(E)The operational costs of bottle refill stations, including utilities and regular public
health testing.
(F)The cost and availability of BPA-free reusable containers.
(G)The effect on concessioner and cooperation association sales revenue.
(H)The availability of water within concession foodservice operations.
(I) The ability to provide visitor education in the unit and online so that visitors may
come prepared with their own water bottles.
(J) Any input from the National Park Service Office of Public Health.
(K)The feasibility of posting signs so that visitors can easily find bottle refill stations.
(L)Safety considerations for visitors who may resort to not carrying enough water or
drinking from surface water sources with potential exposure to disease.
(M) Any input from concessioners and cooperating associations within the unit.
(2) Units of NPS previously eliminated the sale of water in disposable plastic bottles
With respect to a unit of the National Park System that does not offer for sale water in
disposable plastic bottles on the date prior to the date of the enactment of this Act, the
superintendent of such unit may continue to not offer for sale water in disposable plastic
bottles if such superintendent, not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, submit to the regional director of such unit an evaluation that analyzes and addresses the
factors listed in subparagraphs (A) through (M) of paragraph (1).
(c) Proactive visitor education strategy

Each regional director concerned shall develop for such unit of the National Park System a
proactive visitor education strategy that addresses visitor expectations of water availability
and explains the rationale for the program for recycling and reduction of disposable plastic
bottles established under subsection (a) and implemented in such unit.
(d) Continuity within unit of the NPS
Each regional director concerned shall, to the extent possible, implement the program for
recycling and reduction of disposable plastic bottles established under subsection (a) in a
manner that is consistent throughout such unit of the National Park System, including
incorporation of such program into any agreement with an organization operating within the
unit, including a concessioner operating plan and cooperating association scope of sales.
(e) Biennial evaluation
Each regional director concerned shall, not less than once every 2 years—
(1) conduct an evaluation of the program for recycling and reduction of disposable plastic
bottles established under subsection (a) for such unit of the National Park System,
including—
(A) public response to the program;
(B) visitor satisfaction with the availability of water;
(C) buying behavior with respect to products sold in disposable plastic bottles;
(D) public safety including information on cases of dehydration or exposure to
disease from drinking from surface water; and
(E) disposable plastic bottle collection rates; and
(2) submit such evaluation to the Director of the National Park Service and the Secretary
of the Interior.
(F) Definition of the regional director concerned
For the purposes of this section, the term regional director concerned means, with respect to a
unit of the National Park System, the regional director of the region of the National Park
System in which such unit is located, working in coordination with the superintendent of
such unit.