1
152nd CONGRESS
1st Session
H.R. 5
IN THE CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES
April 15, 2022
MR. JONES (For himself) introduced the following bill;
A BILL
To remove National Weather Service radar-holes across the country through constructing
additional radars and National Weather Service Forecast Offices where radar-holes persist and to
increase funding to National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and its affiliated
branches.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION I: SHORT NAME
(a) This Act may be cited as the “Removal of American Radar-holes Act of 2022” or the
“ROAR Act of 2022”.
SECTION II: DEFINITIONS
In this Act—

2
(a) Radar-hole: A radar-hole can be defined as any area in the United States not adequately
covered by accurate, low-level radar coverage.
(b) WSR-88D: Current weather radar operated by the United States National Weather
Service. The radar was first put into service in 1988.
SECTION III: FINDINGS
Congress finds that—
1. Multiple radar-holes persist across various locations in the United States, with some of
those locations hosting a significant population;
2. Radar-holes persist in various locations that play host to major severe and winter weather
threats, as well as other hazardous forms of weather;
3. Current National Weather Service radars, the WSR-88D, are restricted in how far they
can accurately read low-level areas;
4. The creation of new National Weather Service Forecast Areas has the potential to create
thousands of new meteorological day;
5. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and its affiliated branches are
underfunded by the United States Federal Government, which poses a serious risk to the
American population should they be unable to perform their duties in the event of
restricted funding;
6. Locations of various radar-holes include the following;
a. Along the border between New Hampshire and Vermont,
b. a small sliver between the Pennsylvania and New York borders,
c. a larger gap in eastern central Pennsylvania,
d. a gap in northern and central Virginia,
e. a gap in west central North Carolina,
f. an area of less accurate readings at the convergence of the North Carolina,
Tennessee, and Georgia borders,
g. a gap near the Big Bend region of Florida,
h. a gap over Fort Myers, Florida, along with a sliver that also runs eastwards to the
Atlantic Ocean,
i. a gap along a small portion of the Mississippi and Alabama border,
j. a gap in Southwestern Tennessee,
k. a gap in Southern Kentucky,
l. a gap in Southeastern Ohio,
m. a gap in Northwestern Ohio,
n. a gap near Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan,
o. a gap in north central Wisconsin,
p. major gaps stretching from west central Minnesota to northern Minnesota,
q. a gap along the Iowa and Minnesota borders,

3
r. a gap in Northeastern Missouri,
s. a gap in Southeastern Missouri and Northeastern Arkansas,
t. a gap along the Mississippi River between Mississippi, Arkansas, and Louisiana,
u. a gap between Dallas and Houston, Texas,
v. a gap along portions of the border between the Texas and Oklahoma borders,
w. a gap in central Kansas,
x. a gap in Northwestern Kansas,
y. a gap in Northeastern Nebraska,
z. a gap in central South Dakota,
aa. a gap in Southeastern Montana,
bb. and a gap in west central Oregon.
7. Those aforementioned gaps are seen as the most major of radar gaps in need of a National
Weather Service Forecast Office.
8. Other gaps do exist, however most of these gaps persist mainly in the Rocky Mountains
and various other mountain ranges in the Western 1/3 of the United States.
9. Mountains tend to break up radar signals much easier and, due to the many radars that
would to be created in the various valleys, it would make filling these gaps unfeasible.
10. National Weather Service Forecast Offices created under this act are projected to create at
least 30 jobs per office, or around 840 Jobs total.
11. It is essential to provide additional funding for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration and its affiliated branches along with providing funding and resources to
construct and operate new National Weather Service Forecast Offices to eliminate
dangerous radar-holes.
SECTION IV: CONSTRUCTION AND LOCATIONS OF NEW NATIONAL WEATHER
SERVICE FORECAST OFFICES
(i) A National Weather Service Forecast Office shall be constructed in the following
cities;
(1) Lyndonville, Vermont,
(2) Hazletown, Pennsylvania,
(3) Lynchburg, Virginia,
(4) Mooresville, North Carolina,
(5) Chattanooga, Tennessee,
(6) Cross City, Florida,
(7) Fort Myers, Florida,
(8) Livingston, Alabama,
(9) Henderson, Tennessee,
(10) Monticello, Kentucky,
(11) Zanesville, Ohio,
(12) Toledo, Ohio,

4
(13) Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan,
(14) Park Falls, Wisconsin,
(15) Roseau, Minnesota,
(16) Park Rapids, Minnesota,
(17) Mason City, Iowa,
(18) Kirksville, Missouri,
(19) Poplar Bluff, Missouri,
(20) Crossett, Arkansas,
(21) Fairfield, Texas,
(22) Hugo, Oklahoma,
(23) Chanute, Kansas,
(24) Oberlin, Kansas,
(25) Bloomfield, Nebraska,
(26) Pierre, South Dakota,
(27) Miles City, Montana,
(28) and North Bend, Oregon.
SECTION V: FUNDING
(i) $2,800,000,000 in funding shall be allocated to d the National Weather Service to
survey new locations and construct the new offices.
(1) Construction of the offices shall last approximately 1 to 5 years, and
offices should be operational by at least 5 years after the passage of this
legislation.
(ii) An additional 1,000,000 in funding shall be allocated to the National Weather
Service for upkeep, resource, employment costs of these new Field Offices.
SECTION VI: EFFECTIVE DATE
EFFECTIVE DATE.— The provisions of this Act shall come into force immediately upon
passage.