173RD CONGRESS
2ND SESSION
S. 1
To provide a tax credit for the installation and utilization of solar
panels on residential properties.
MS. MOCTEZUMA (for herself, MR. HARRIS-CHAREST
Ms. Whitmer ) introduced the following bill.
AN ACT
To provide a tax credit for the installation and utilization of solar panels on residential
properties.
Be it enacted by the Senate and the House of Representatives of the United States of America
in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the Residential Solar Energy Tax Credit Act of 2024.
SEC 2. DEFINITIONS.
In this act:
(a) Department as used in this Act shall refer to the Department of the
Treasury.
(b) Dwelling shall use the definition as provided in 42 USC 3602(b).
(c) Secretary shall refer to the Secretary of the Treasury, or any designee
named thereof.

2
SEC 3. CHANGES TO TAX CODE.
Title 26, United States Code, is amended by inserting after section 36C the
following:
“§ 36D. Residential Solar Tax Credit.
“(a) ALLOWANCE OF CREDIT.— Any person who owns a building
that has a primary purpose of being a dwelling, or consists primarily of
dwelling units shall be eligible for a credit against the total amount of tax
imposed by this chapter, provided that the solar energy system is of sufficient
size to meet or exceed fifty percent of the building’s projected annual energy
use.
“(b) LIMITATIONS.—
“(1) Dollar Limitation.— The credit allowed under paragraph
(a) shall not exceed twenty-five percent of the annual maintenance
cost for the solar energy system.
“(A) In the case of a solar energy system sized to provide
one-hundred percent of the building’s projected annual energy
use, subparagraph (1) shall be applied by substituting “fifty
percent” for “twenty-five percent”.
“(B) In the case of a solar energy system sized to provide
one-hundred and twenty-five percent of the building’s projected
annual energy use, subparagraph (1) shall be applied by
substituting “sixty-two and one-half percent” for “twenty-five
percent”.
“(2) Individuals seeking to claim the credit provided shall
provide documentation to the Department in such a manner as the
Secretary may prescribe.
“(A) At the discretion of the Secretary, the credit may be
prorated should the system not provide fifty percent of the
building’s projected annual energy use.

3
SEC 4. SUPREMACY.
For the purposes of enacting this Act, any laws in conflict with this Act shall be
immediately rescinded and rendered null and void.
SEC 5. SEVERABILITY.
If any provision of this Act, or any amendment made by this Act, or the application
of such provision to any person, entity, government, or circumstance, is held to be
unconstitutional, the remainder of this Act, or any amendment made thereby, or the
application of such provision to all other persons, entities, governments, or
circumstances, shall not be affected thereby.
SEC 6. SUNSET.
This credit shall expire 10 years after adoption, unless reauthorized by Congress.