S.10
To federally introduce education standards about sex education in high schools
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
July 7, 2022
Mr. Bolton (for himself, Ms. Kendrick ) introduced the following bill;
A BILL
-To federally introduce educational standards about sex education in high schools-
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America
in Congress assembled,
SEC.1. SHORT TITLE
This bill shall be cited as the “Revised Sex Education Act” or “RESEA”
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress finds that—
(a) Sex Education is not taught adequently in the various States
(b) The Department of Education should provide guidelines for sex education and
funding for those who follow it.
SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act—
(a) DEPARTMENT.— The term “Department” means the Department of Education.
(b) SECRETARY.— The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of the Department.
(c) STI.— The term “STI” means Sexually Transmitted Infection
(d) STD.— The term “STD” means Sexually Transmitted Disease

SEC. 4. PROVISIONS
(a) Every public high school shall be encouraged to teach their students the following:
(I) STI and STD prevention
1. Including information about testing prior to sex, best ways to
prevent the transfer of STIs and STDs including condoms,
abstinence, and vaccines for highly infectious diseases.
(II) STI and STD awareness
1. Teach students how to check partners for STIs (visible
rashes, marks, sores, etc.), and check themselves for these
sores, etc.
2. Teach the ramifications of the STIs, like cost, health issues,
transmission, etc.
(III) Women’s and Men’s reproductive health
1. Including educating high schoolers about masturbation
(without speaking about how to masturbate) the benefits of
mastubation, such as sexual release; stress relief, etc., the
negatives of masturbation, and how certain activities or
clothing can restrict or harm genitalia (rashes, swelling,
damage to sperm from excessive heat,etc.)
(IV) Pregnancy prevention
1. Including, but not limited to, contraceptive pills, male/female
condoms, Intrauterine Devices (IUDs), contraceptive
implants, injections, patches, spermicide, and abstinence.
(V) Pregnancy
1. Including fertilization, pregnancy tests, the costs of having a
child, adoptions, abortions, and programs (like WIC) that can
offer assistance to struggling mothers.
(VI) Anatomy of the reproductive system of both sexes
1. Including the organs and parts of male and female
reproductive systems, including but not limited to, the penis,
testicles, prostate, foreskin (all parts of the penis), vagina,

uterus, fallopian tubes, ovaries, clitorus, the labia minora and
majora (all part of the vagina), breasts, nipples, areola, and
mammary glands (all parts of the breast).
(VII) Consent and sexual assault prevention
1. Explaining that all genders can be affected by sexual assault.
Teaching someone to deny anyone that their story is false, or
that it “cannot happen to you because of gender” is
prohibited.
2. Including teaching saying “no”, simple self defense tactics,
like pushing away, screaming for help, talking loudly to draw
attention from others, verbally stating the person is making
you uncomfortable and asking them to stop, calling the
police if someone has been following you, and many more
self defense tactics.
3. Teaching the importance of respecting consent or lack
thereof. If someone verbally or nonverbally asks to stop, that
request must be respected in accordance with the law.
(b) In order to meet the minimum standards for sex education curriculum,
sex education curriculum must not discourage genders or sexualities in any
way.
(c) In order to meet the minimum standards for sexual education
curriculum, sexual education materials and curriculum will be included in
the current “Health” classes as a unit and must be a requirement to graduate
or included in a class that is a requirement to graduate. All base material
(the information listed A I-VII) will be provided to states. Any other
information provided by students or teachers must be medically accurate
and factual. If there is any question about the answers' integrity, educators
are required to research the answer, or deny an answer altogether.
SEC. 5. (a) Any state that implements a curriculum that follows the minimum
standards in Section Two shall be eligible to receive an educational grant

equal to $200 per secondary school in all schools that teach the compliant
sexual education curriculum.
(I) This grant must be used to implement compliant sexual education
classes in public high schools throughout the state; leftover funds
must be used to pay for school improvements, acquisition of
supplies, teachers salaries, and other educational expenditures.
SEC. 6. Duties of The Department
(a) IN GENERAL.— The Secretary shall establish a program that provides funds
related to the Department, provides the subsidies to the above-mentioned, and
ensures that the funds are not misused.
(b) REQUIREMENTS.— In carrying out the program under subsection (a) the
Secretary shall—
(1) ensure the program is made; and
(2) work in accordance with the Department of Health and Human Services.
(c) FUNDING.— The Secretary shall be appropriated $6,000,000 for the fiscal year of
June 22,2022 to June 23,2023 to carry out the provisions of this section.
SEC. 7. SUPREMACY:
All laws in conflict with this legislation are hereby declared null and void.
SEC. 8. ENACTMENT:
EFFECTIVE DATE.— The provisions of this Act shall come into force immediately upon
passage.
H.R.8 Companion Bill —
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1uTsoIeuLiJjXmQJT79VzwWOCpiv8lPRd-bZDe9SBMt8/ed
it?usp=sharing