S.6
IN THE 148th CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES
SEPTEMBER 22nd, 2024
Introduced by Dr. Fontenot (for himself,)
Be it enacted by the House of Representatives and the Senate of the United States of
America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE
(a) This Act may be cited as the “Saving America’s Pollinators Act.” or “SAPA”
SEC. 2.FINDINGS
(a) Congress finds:
(1) Pollination services are a vital part of agricultural production, valued
at over $125,000,000,000 globally. According to a 2014 Presidential
memorandum, pollinators provide for an annual amount of
$24,000,000,000 to the economy of the United States and honey bees
account for$15,000,000,000 of such amount. Similarly, pollination
services of native pollinators, such as bumble bees, squash bees, and
mason bees, contribute over $3,000,000,000 to the United States
agricultural economy and are estimated to contribute between
$937,000,000 and $2,400,000,000 to the economy of California alone.
(2) One-third of food produced in North America, including nearly 100
varieties of fruits and vegetables such as almonds, avocados,
cranberries, and apples, depends on pollination by bees.
(3) More than one-quarter of North American bumble bees are facing risk
of extinction, while iconic species like the monarch butterfly and the

American bumblebee have declined by 85 percent and 90 percent
respectively. More than 70 pollinator species are listed as threatened
or endangered, with the rusty patched bumble bee, powesheik
skipperling, and Dakota skipper listed within this past decade due, in
part, to threats from pesticides.
(4) Neonicotinoid pesticides cause sublethal effects, including impaired
foraging and feeding behavior, disorientation, weakened immunity,
delayed larval development, and increased susceptibility to viruses,
diseases, and parasites. Numerous reports also document acute, lethal
effects from the application of neonicotinoid pesticides.
(5) Since insects constitute the world’s most abundant and speciose animal
group and provide critical ecosystem services, such event cannot be
ignored and should prompt decisive action to avert a catastrophic
collapse of nature’s ecosystems.
(6) Neonicotinoid insecticides play an outsized role in driving pollinator
declines in the United States and urgent action on neonicotinoid
insecticides has been recommended by scientists as a measure that
would provide immediate benefit to restore beleaguered pollinator
populations.
SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS
(a) Congress defines:
(i) The term ‘‘neonicotinoid pesticide’’ means any active ingredient or
pesticide product that contains at least 1 of 17 the active ingredients;
imidacloprid; clothianidin; thiamethoxam;) dinotefuran; acetamiprid;
sulfoxaflor; flupyradifurone; chlorantraniliprole; or fipronil.
SEC. 4. URGENT REGULATORY RESPONSE FOR HONEY BEE 15 AND
POLLINATOR PROTECTION.

(a) Neonicotinoid pesticides shall be deemed to generally cause unreasonable
adverse effects to the environment; and
(b) notwithstanding any other provision of law, including section 6(b) of the
Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (7 25 U.S.C. 136(d)), the
registration of all uses of neonicotinoid pesticides shall be immediately and
permanently canceled by operation of law and without further proceedings.
(c) Effective on the date of enactment of this subsection, the continued sale or
use of existing stocks of neonicotinoid pesticides shall be prohibited.
(d) Effective on the date of enactment of this subsection, the Administrator shall
no longer consider seeds for planting coated with systemic pesticides intended
to kill pests of the plant instead of pests of the seed itself as a treated article
as defined in section 152.25(a) of title 40, Code 4 of Federal Regulations (or
successor regulations).
SEC. 5.INCREASED COORDINATION WITH CENTER FOR POLLINATOR
CONSERVATION.
(a) The Center For Pollinator Conservation shall develop and coordinate the
policies and activities of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service to
conserve pollinators and reverse declines in pollinator populations, taking
into account the widespread use of neonicotinoid pesticides, other systemic
insecticides, and other pesticides, including by carrying out the following
activities:
(1) Take measures to reverse declines in pollinator populations, including
by identifying and addressing threats faced by pollinators, including
the immediate threats presented by neonicotinoid pesticides, other
systemic insecticides, and other pesticides.
(2) Coordinate with the National Resource Conservation Service of the
Department of Agriculture to prioritize the health of pollinators in
habitat conservation efforts carried out by participants in programs
carried out by the National Resource Conservation Service.

(3) Consult with scientists, conservation groups, beekeepers, organic
farmers, and other parties that have a substantial interest in the
protection and conservation of pollinators, as necessary, in carrying out
the activities under this subsection.
(4) Carry out such other activities as the Secretary of the Interior
determines appropriate.
SEC. 6. Appropriations
(a) $15,000,000 shall be annually appropriated from the surplus in the General
Appropriations to the Department of the Interior for the purpose of the
implementation of the provisions of this act.
SEC. 7. Supremacy
(a) For any provision of any statute that contradicts any section of this act, the
contradictory provision of that statute shall be struck and nullified.
SEC. 8. Severability Clause
(a) If any provision of this Act or an amendment made by this Act, or the
application of a provision or amendment to any person or circumstance, is
held to be invalid for any reason in any court of competent jurisdiction, the
remainder of this Act and amendments made by this Act, and the application
of the provisions and amendment to any other person or circumstance, shall
not be affected.
SEC. 9. Enactment
(a) This bill will go into effect upon passage.