1
147TH CONGRESS
1ST SESSION
H.R. 06
To establish a Space Force of the United States to secure the interest of the Nation in Outer Space.
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
NOVEMBER 22, 2021
Mr. GLASS (for himself, Mr. NOAH) introduced the following bill;
A BILL
To establish a Space Force of the United States to secure the interest of the Nation in Outer Space.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the “Securing Paramount Assets in Space Creation Act” or the
“SPASCA Act”.
SECTION 2. ESTABLISHMENT OF UNITED STATES SPACE FORCE IN THE
DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE.
Part I of subtitle D of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the
following new chapter:
“CHAPTER 909—THE SPACE FORCE

2
“Sec.
“9091. Establishment of the Space Force.
“9092. The Space Staff: function; composition.
“9093. The Space Staff: general duties.
“9094. Chief of Staff of the Space Force.
“9095. Vice Chief of Staff of the Space Force.
“§9091. Establishment of the Space Force
“(a) Establishment.—There is established a United States Space Force as an armed force
within the Department of the Air Force.
“(b) Functions.— (1) The Space Force shall be organized, trained, and equipped—
“(A) to provide for freedom of operations in, from, and to the space domain for the United
States;
“(B) to provide independent military options for joint and national leadership; and
“(C) to enable the lethality and effectiveness of the joint force.
“(2) The Space Force includes both combat and combat-support functions to enable
prompt and sustained offensive and defensive space operations and joint operations in all
domains.
“(c) Composition.—The Space Force consists of—
“(1) the Regular Space Force and associated reserve components;
“(2) all persons appointed or enlisted in, or conscripted into, the Space Force, including
those not assigned to units, necessary to form the basis for a complete and immediate
mobilization for the national defense in the event of a national emergency; and
“(3) all Space Force units and other Space Force organizations, including installations and
supporting and auxiliary combat, training, administrative, and logistic elements.
“(d) Duties.—Except as otherwise specifically prescribed by law, the Space Force shall be
organized in such manner, and the members of the Space Force shall perform such duties and
have such titles, as the Secretary of the Air Force may prescribe.
“§ 9092. The Space Staff: function; composition
“(a) Function.—There is in the executive part of the Department of the Air Force a Space
Staff to assist the Secretary of the Air Force in carrying out the responsibilities of the
Secretary.

3
“(b) Composition.—The Space Staff is composed of the following:
“(1) The Chief of Staff of the Space Force.
“(2) The Vice Chief of Staff of the Space Force.
“(3) Such other offices and officials as may be established by law or as the Secretary of the
Air Force may establish or designate.
“(4) Other members of the Air Force and Space Force assigned or detailed to the Space
Staff.
“(5) Civilian employees in the Department of the Air Force assigned or detailed to the
Space Staff.
“(c) Organization.—Except as otherwise specifically prescribed by law, the Space Staff
shall be organized in such manner, and the members of the Space Staff shall perform such
duties and have such titles, as the Secretary of the Air Force may prescribe.
“§ 9093. The Space Staff: general duties
“(a) Professional Assistance.—The Space Staff shall furnish professional assistance to the
Secretary of the Air Force, the Chief of Staff of the Space Force, and other personnel of the
Office of the Secretary of the Air Force or the Space Staff.
“(b) Authorities.—Under the authority, direction, and control of the Secretary of the Air
Force, the Space Staff shall—
“(1) subject to subsections (c) and (d) of section 9014 of this title, prepare for such
employment of the Space Force, and for such recruiting, organizing, supplying, equipping
(including research and development), training, servicing, mobilizing, demobilizing,
administering, and maintaining of the Space Force, as will assist in the execution of any
power, duty, or function of the Secretary of the Air Force or the Chief of Staff of the Space
Force;
“(2) investigate and report upon the efficiency of the Space Force and its preparation to
support military operations by commanders of the combatant commands;
“(3) prepare detailed instructions for the execution of approved plans and supervise the
execution of those plans and instructions;
“(4) as directed by the Secretary of the Air Force or the Chief Staff of the Space Force,
coordinate the action of organizations of the Space Force; and

4
“(5) perform such other duties, not otherwise assigned by law, as may be prescribed by the
Secretary of the Air Force.
“§ 9094. Chief of Staff of the Space Force
“(a) Appointment.— (1) There is a Chief of Staff of the Space Force, appointed by the
President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, from the general officers of the
Space Force. The Chief of Staff shall serve at the pleasure of the President.
“(2) The Chief of Staff shall be appointed for a term of four years. In time of war or during
a national emergency declared by Congress, the Chief of Staff may be reappointed for a term
of not more than four years.
“(3) The President may appoint an officer as Chief of Staff only if—
“(A) the officer has had significant experience in joint duty assignments; and
“(B) such experience includes at least one full tour of duty in a joint duty assignment (as
defined in section 664(d) of this title) as a general officer.
“(4) The President may waive paragraph (3) in the case of an officer if the President
determines such action is necessary in the national interest.
“(b) Grade.—The Chief of Staff of the Space Force, while so serving, has the grade of
general without vacating the permanent grade of the officer.
“(c) Relationship To The Secretary Of The Air Force.—Except as otherwise prescribed by
law and subject to section 9013(f) of this title, the Chief of Staff of the Space Force performs
the duties of such position under the authority, direction, and control of the Secretary of the
Air Force and is directly responsible to the Secretary.
“(d) Duties.—Subject to the authority, direction, and control of the Secretary of the Air
Force, the Chief of Staff of the Space Force shall—
“(1) preside over the Space Staff;
“(2) transmit the plans and recommendations of the Space Staff to the Secretary of the Air
Force and advise the Secretary with regard to such plans and recommendations;
“(3) after approval of the plans or recommendations of the Space Staff by the Secretary of
the Air Force, act as the agent of the Secretary in carrying them into effect;
“(4) exercise supervision, consistent with the authority assigned to commanders of unified
or specified combatant commands under chapter 6 of this title, over such of the members and

5
organizations of the Space Force and the Air Force as the Secretary of the Air Force
determines;
“(5) perform the duties prescribed for the Chief of Staff by sections 171 and 2547 of this
title and other provisions of law; and
“(6) perform such other military duties, not otherwise assigned by law, as are assigned to
the Chief of Staff by the President, the Secretary of Defense, or the Secretary of the Air Force.
“(e) Joint Chiefs Of Staff.— (1) The Chief of Staff of the Space Force shall also perform
the duties prescribed for the Chief of Staff as a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff under
section 151 of this title.
“(2) To the extent that such action does not impair the independence of the Chief of Staff
in the performance of the duties of the Chief of Staff as a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
the Chief of Staff shall inform the Secretary of the Air Force regarding military advice
rendered by members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff on matters affecting the Department of the
Air Force.
“(3) Subject to the authority, direction, and control of the Secretary of Defense, the Chief
of Staff shall keep the Secretary of the Air Force fully informed of significant military
operations affecting the duties and responsibilities of the Secretary of the Air Force.
“§ 9095. Vice Chief of Staff of the Space Force
“(a) Appointment.—There is a Vice Chief of Staff of the Space Force, appointed by the
President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, from the general officers of the
Space Force.
“(b) Grade.—The Vice Chief of Staff of the Space Force, while so serving, has the grade
of general without vacating the permanent grade of the officer so serving.
“(c) Duties.—The Vice Chief of Staff has such authority and duties with respect to the
Space Force as the Chief of Staff of the Space Force, with the approval of the Secretary of the
Air Force, may delegate to or prescribe for the Vice Chief of Staff. Orders issued by the Vice
Chief of Staff in performing such duties have the same effect as those issued by the Chief of
Staff.
“(d) Vacancy In Office Of Chief Of Staff.—When there is a vacancy in the office of Chief
of Staff of the Space Force or during the absence or disability of the Chief of Staff—

6
“(1) the Vice Chief of Staff shall perform the duties of the Chief of Staff until a successor
is appointed or the absence or disability ceases; or
“(2) if there is a vacancy in the office of the Vice Chief of Staff or the Vice Chief of Staff
is absent or disabled, unless the President directs otherwise, the most senior officer of the
Space Force in the Space Staff who is not absent or disabled and who is not restricted in
performance of duty shall perform the duties of the Chief of Staff until a successor to the
Chief of Staff or the Vice Chief of Staff is appointed or until the absence or disability of the
Chief of Staff or Vice Chief of Staff ceases, whichever occurs first.”.
SECTION 3. UNDER SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE FOR SPACE.
(a) Establishment.—Section 9015 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1) in the heading, by striking “UNDER SECRETARY” and inserting “UNDER
SECRETARIES”;
(2) in subsection (a), by striking “is an Under Secretary of the Air Force” and
inserting “are two Under Secretaries of the Air Force”; and
(3) by striking subsection (b) and inserting the following new subsections:
“(b) (1) One of the Under Secretaries shall be the Under Secretary of the Air Force.
“(2) The Under Secretary of the Air Force shall be the first assistant to the Secretary
of the Air Force and shall assist the Secretary in the performance of the duties of the
Secretary and shall act for, and exercise the powers of, the Secretary when the Secretary
dies, resigns, or is otherwise unable to perform the functions and duties of the office.
“(c) (1) One of the Under Secretaries shall be the Under Secretary of the Air Force
for Space, who shall also be known as the Under Secretary for Space.

7
“(2) The Under Secretary for Space shall be responsible for the overall supervision of
space matters.
“(d) In addition to the duties and powers described in subsections (b) and (c), the
Under Secretaries shall perform such duties and exercise such powers as the Secretary of
the Air Force may prescribe.”.
(b) Conforming Amendments.—
(1) TABLE OF SECTIONS.—The table of sections at the beginning of chapter
903 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to section 9015 and inserting
the following new item:
“9015. Under Secretaries of the Air Force.”.
(2) SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE.—Section 9013(f) of such title is
amended—
(A) in the first sentence, by striking “Under Secretary” and inserting
“Under Secretaries”; and
(B) in the second sentence, by striking “the Under Secretary” and inserting
“either Under Secretary”.
(3) OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE.—Section
9014(b)(1) of such title is amended by striking “Under Secretary” and inserting
“Under Secretaries”.
(4) SUCCESSOR TO DUTIES.—Section 9017 of such title is amended—

8
(A) by redesignating paragraphs (2) through (4) as paragraphs (3) through
(5), respectively; and
(B) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new paragraph:
“(2) The Under Secretary of the Air Force for Space.”.
SECTION 4. INCLUSION OF THE SPACE FORCE ON THE JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF
AND JOINT STAFF.
(a) Membership Of The Chief Of Staff Of The Space Force On The Joint Chiefs Of
Staff.—Section 151(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1) by redesignating paragraph (7) as paragraph (8); and
(2) by inserting after paragraph (6) the following new paragraph:
“(7) The Chief of Staff of the Space Force.”.
(b) Appointment Of Chairman.—Section 152(b)(1)(B) of such title is amended by striking
“or the Commandant of the Marine Corps” and inserting “the Commandant of the Marine Corps,
or the Chief of Staff of the Space Force”.
(c) Inclusion Of The Space Force On The Joint Staff.—Section 155(a)(2)(C) of such title is
amended by inserting “and the Space Force” after “the Air Force”.
SECTION 5. CIVILIAN PERSONNEL SUPPORTING THE SPACE FORCE.
(a) Organization Of Chapter.—
(1) CHAPTER 947.—Chapter 947 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(A) by striking the table of sections and inserting the following:
● “ Subchapter Sec.

9
● “I. General Civilian Personnel Matters 9371
● “II. Space Force Civilian Personnel Matters 9375
“SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL CIVILIAN PERSONNEL MATTERS
“Sec.
“9371. Air University: civilian faculty members.
“9372. Production of supplies and munitions: hours and pay of laborers and mechanics.
“9373. Civilian special agents of the Office of Special Investigations: authority to execute warrants and make
arrests.”;
and
(B) by redesignating sections 9375 and 9377 as sections 9372 and 9373,
respectively.
(2) CHAPTER 949.—Chapter 949 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(A) in the table of sections, by striking the item relating to section 9381 and
inserting the following new item:
“9391. Fatality reviews.”;

10
and
(B) by redesignating section 9381 as section 9391.
(b) Civilian Personnel Supporting The Space Force.—Chapter 947 of title 10, United States
Code, as amended by subsection (a) of this section, is further amended by adding at the end the
following new subchapter:
“SUBCHAPTER II—SPACE FORCE CIVILIAN PERSONNEL MATTERS
“Sec.
“9375. Definitions and implementation.
“9376. Space Force civilian personnel: general authority to establish excepted positions, appoint personnel, and
fix rates of pay.
“9377. Basic pay.
“9378. Additional compensation, allowances, and incentives.
“9379. Limitation on certain payments.
“9380. Benefits for certain employees assigned outside the United States.
“9381. Space Force Senior Executive Service.
“9382. Space Force Senior Level positions.
“9383. Time-limited appointments.
“9384. Termination of Space Force employees.
“9385. Reductions and other adjustments in force.
“9386. Postemployment assistance: certain terminated Space Force employees.

11
“9387. Appointment of Space Force employees to competitive service positions in the Department of Defense.
“9388. Merit system principles; civil service protections; right of appeal.
“§ 9375. Definitions and implementation
“(a) Definitions.—In this subchapter:
“(1) The term ‘competitive service’ has the meaning given such term in section 2102 of
title 5.
“(2) The term ‘excepted service’ has the meaning given such term in section 2103 of
title 5.
“(3) The term ‘preference eligible’ has the meaning given such term in section 2108(3)
of title 5.
“(4) The term ‘Senior Executive Service position’ has the meaning given such term in
section 3132(a)(2) of title 5.
“(5) The term ‘Space Force position’ means a position as a civilian employee of the
Department of the Air Force supporting the Space Force or United States Space Command,
as determined by the Secretary of Defense.
“(b) Implementation.—The Secretary of Defense may implement this subchapter without
regard to any provision of chapter 71 of title 5.
“§ 9376. Space Force civilian personnel: general authority to establish excepted
positions, appoint personnel, and fix rates of pay
“(a) In General.—The Secretary of Defense may—

12
“(1) establish, as positions in the excepted service, such positions in the Department of
the Air Force as the Secretary of Defense determines necessary to support the Space Force,
including—
“(A) Space Force Senior Level positions designated under section 9382 of this
title; and
“(B) positions in the Space Force Senior Executive Service;
“(2) after taking into consideration the availability of preference eligibles for
appointment to those positions (except with respect to positions referred to in subparagraphs
(A) and (B) of paragraph (1)), appoint individuals to those positions; and
“(3) fix the compensation of such individuals for service in those positions.
“(b) Construction With Other Laws.—The authority of the Secretary of Defense under
subsection (a) applies without regard to the provisions of any other law relating to the
appointment, number, classification, or compensation of employees.
“§ 9377. Basic pay
“(a) Authority To Fix Rates Of Basic Pay.—The Secretary of Defense shall fix the rates of
basic pay for positions established under section 9376 of this title in relation to the rates of pay
provided for comparable positions in the Department of Defense and subject to the same
limitations on maximum rates of pay established for employees of the Department of Defense by
law or regulation, or based upon compensation for similar positions in a labor market, as
necessary to recruit and retain employees in support of the Space Force. The rate of basic pay for
any position under the authority of this subchapter may not exceed the rate payable for a position
at Level II of the Executive Schedule.
“(b) Prevailing Rate Systems.—Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of
Defense may, consistent with section 5341 of title 5, adopt such provisions of that title as to
provide for prevailing rate systems of basic pay and may apply those provisions to positions for

13
civilian employees in or under which the Department of Defense may employ individuals
described by section 5342(a)(2)(A) of that title.
“§ 9378. Additional compensation, allowances, and incentives
“(a) Additional Compensation.—The Secretary of Defense may provide employees in Space
Force positions compensation in addition to basic pay, including benefits, incentives, and
allowances, consistent with and not in excess of the level authorized for comparable positions
authorized by title 5.
“(b) Allowances Based On Living Costs And Environment.— (1) In addition to basic pay,
employees in Space Force positions who are citizens or nationals of the United States and are
stationed outside the continental United States or in Alaska may be paid an allowance, in
accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense, while they are so stationed.
“(2) An allowance under this subsection shall be based on—
“(A) living costs substantially higher than in the District of Columbia; or
“(B) conditions of environment that—
“(i) differ substantially from conditions of environment in the continental United
States; and
“(ii) warrant an allowance as a recruitment incentive.
“(3) An allowance under this subsection may not exceed the allowance authorized to be paid
by section 5941(a) of title 5 for employees whose rates of basic pay are fixed by statute.
“§ 9379. Limitation on certain payments
“No allowance, differential, bonus, award, or other similar cash payment under this title may be
paid to an employee in a calendar year if, or to the extent that, when added to the total basic pay
paid or payable to such employee for service performed in such calendar year, such payment

14
would cause the total to exceed the total annual compensation payable to the Vice President under
section 104 of title 3 as of the end of such calendar year.
“§ 9380. Benefits for certain employees assigned outside the United States
“(a) In General.—The Secretary of Defense may provide to civilian personnel described in
subsection (c) allowances and benefits comparable to those provided by the Secretary of State to
officers and employees of the Foreign Service under paragraphs (2) through (8) and (13) of
section 901 and sections 705 and 903 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4081 (2), (3),
(4), (5), (6), (7), (8), and (13), 4025, 4083) and under section 5924(4) of title 5.
“(b) Applicability.—Subsection (a) shall apply to civilian personnel of the Department of
Defense who—
“(1) are United States nationals;
“(2) are assigned to duty outside the United States; and
“(3) are designated by the Secretary of Defense for the purposes of subsection (a).
“§ 9381. Space Force Senior Executive Service
“(a) Establishment.—The Secretary of Defense may establish a Space Force Senior
Executive Service for Space Force positions established pursuant to section 9376(a) of this title
that are equivalent to Senior Executive Service positions.
“(b) Regulations Consistent With Title 5 Provisions.— (1) The Secretary of Defense shall
prescribe regulations for the Space Force Senior Executive Service that are consistent with the
requirements set forth in sections 3131, 3132(a)(2), 3396(c), 3592, 3595(a), 5384, and 6304 of
title 5, subsections (a), (b), and (c) of section 7543 of such title (except that any hearing or appeal
to which a member of the Space Force Senior Executive Service is entitled shall be held or
decided pursuant to those regulations), and subchapter II of chapter 43 of such title.

15
“(2) To the extent that the Secretary determines it practicable to apply to members of, or
applicants for, the Space Force Senior Executive Service other provisions of title 5 that apply to
members of, or applicants for, the Senior Executive Service, the Secretary shall also prescribe
regulations to implement those provisions with respect to the Space Force Senior Executive
Service.
“(c) Award Of Rank To Members Of The Space Force Senior Executive Service.—The
President, based on the recommendation of the Secretary of Defense, may award a rank referred to
in section 4507 of title 5 to a member of the Space Force Senior Executive Service. The award of
such rank shall be made in a manner consistent with the provisions of that section.
“(d) Performance Appraisals.— (1) The Space Force Senior Executive Service shall be
subject to a performance appraisal system that, as designed and applied, is certified by the
Secretary of Defense under section 5307 of title 5 as making meaningful distinctions based on
relative performance.
“(2) The performance appraisal system applicable to the Space Force Senior Executive
Service under paragraph (1) may be the same performance appraisal system that is established and
implemented within the Department of Defense for members of the Senior Executive Service.
“§ 9382. Space Force Senior Level positions
“(a) Designation Of Positions.—The Secretary of Defense may designate as a Space Force
Senior Level position any Space Force position that, as determined by the Secretary—
“(1) is classifiable above grade GS–15 of the General Schedule;
“(2) does not satisfy functional or program management criteria for being designated a
Space Force Senior Executive Service position; and
“(3) has no more than minimal supervisory responsibilities.

16
“(b) Regulations.—Subsection (a) shall be carried out in accordance with regulations
prescribed by the Secretary of Defense.
“(c) Award Of Rank To Employees In Space Force Senior Level Positions.—The President,
based on the recommendation of the Secretary of Defense, may award a rank referred to in section
4507a of title 5 to an employee in a Space Force Senior Level position designated under
subsection (a). The award of such rank shall be made in a manner consistent with the provisions
of that section.
“§ 9383. Time-limited appointments
“(a) Authority For Time-Limited Appointments.—The Secretary of Defense may authorize
time-limited appointments to Space Force positions.
“(b) Review Of Use Of Authority.—The Secretary of Defense shall review each time-limited
appointment in a Space Force position at the end of the first year of the period of the appointment
and determine whether the appointment should be continued for the remainder of the period.
“(c) Condition On Permanent Appointment To Space Force Senior Executive Service.—An
employee serving in a Space Force position pursuant to a time-limited appointment is not eligible
for a permanent appointment to a Space Force Senior Executive Service position (including a
position in which the employee is serving) unless the employee is selected for the permanent
appointment on a competitive basis.
“(d) Time-Limited Appointment Defined.—In this section, the term ‘time-limited
appointment’ means an appointment for a period not to exceed three years.
“§ 9384. Termination of Space Force employees
“(a) Termination Authority.—Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of
Defense may terminate the employment of any employee in a Space Force position if the
Secretary—

17
“(1) considers that action to be in the interests of the United States; and
“(2) determines that the procedures prescribed in other provisions of law that authorize
the termination of the employment of such employee cannot be invoked in a manner
consistent with the national security.
“(b) Finality.—A decision by the Secretary of Defense to terminate the employment of an
employee under this section is final and may not be appealed or reviewed outside the Department
of Defense.
“(c) Notification To Congressional Defense Committees.—Whenever the Secretary of
Defense terminates the employment of an employee under the authority of this section, the
Secretary shall promptly notify the congressional defense committees of such termination.
“(d) Preservation Of Right To Seek Other Employment.—Any termination of employment
under this section shall not affect the right of the terminated employee to seek or accept
employment with any other department or agency of the United States if that employee is declared
eligible for such employment by the Director of the Office of Personnel Management.
“(e) Limitation On Delegation.—The authority of the Secretary of Defense under this section
may be delegated only to the Deputy Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of the Air Force. An
action to terminate employment of an employee by the Deputy Secretary of Defense or the
Secretary of the Air Force may be appealed to the Secretary of Defense.
“§ 9385. Reductions and other adjustments in force
“(a) In General.—The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe regulations for the separation of
employees in Space Force positions, including members of the Space Force Senior Executive
Service and employees in Space Force Senior Level positions, during a reduction in force or other
adjustment in force. Such regulations shall apply to such a reduction in force or other adjustment
in force notwithstanding sections 3501(b) and 3502 of title 5.

18
“(b) Determinations.—The determination of which employees shall be separated from
employment in Space Force positions during a reduction in force or other adjustment in force shall
be made primarily on the basis of performance.
“(c) Regulations Relating To Space Force SES.—The regulations prescribed under this
section relating to removal from the Space Force Senior Executive Service in a reduction in force
or other adjustment in force shall be consistent with section 3595(a) of title 5.
“§ 9386. Postemployment assistance: certain terminated Space Force employees
“(a) Authority.—Subject to subsections (b) and (c), the Secretary of Defense may, in the case
of any individual who is a qualified former Space Force employee, use appropriated funds to—
“(1) assist that individual in finding and qualifying for employment other than in a
Space Force position;
“(2) assist that individual in meeting the expenses of treatment of medical or
psychological disabilities of that individual; and
“(3) provide financial support to that individual during periods of unemployment.
“(b) Conditions.—Assistance may be provided to a qualified former Space Force employee
under subsection (a) only if the Secretary determines that such assistance is essential to—
“(1) maintain the judgment and emotional stability of the qualified former Space Force
employee; and
“(2) avoid circumstances that might lead to the unlawful disclosure of classified
information to which the qualified former Space Force employee had access.
“(c) Duration Of Assistance.—Assistance may not be provided under this section in the case
of any individual after the end of the five-year period beginning on the date of the termination of
the employment of the individual in a Space Force position.

19
“(d) Qualified Former Space Force Employee Defined.—In this section, the term ‘qualified
former Space Force employee’ means an individual who was employed in a Space Force
position—
“(1) who has been found to be ineligible for continued access to information designated
as ‘Sensitive Compartmented Information’ and employment in the Space Force; or
“(2) whose employment in a Space Force position has been terminated.
“§ 9387. Appointment of Space Force employees to competitive service
positions in the Department of Defense
“(a) Authority.—Subject to subsection (b), the Secretary of Defense may appoint an
employee serving in a Space Force position in the excepted service to a position in the
Department of Defense in the competitive service without competition.
“(b) Conditions.—The Secretary may only exercise the authority under subsection (a) if—
“(1) the employee concerned has served continuously for at least two years in a Space
Force position that is not time-limited under an excepted appointment or has been
involuntarily separated from such position without personal cause within the preceding 12
months;
“(2) the employee concerned meets the qualification standards and requirements for the
competitive service position in accordance with Office of Personnel Management standards;
and
“(3) the employee concerned is considered for selection to competitive service positions
in the same manner that other individuals are considered for appointments without
competition.
“§ 9388. Merit system principles; civil service protections; right of appeal

20
“(a) Merit System Principles.—Section 2301 of title 5 shall apply to the exercise of authority
under this subchapter (other than sections 9380 and 9386).
“(b) Civil Service Protections.— (1) If, in the case of a position established under authority
other than section 9376(a)(1) of this title that is reestablished as an excepted service position
under that section, the provisions of law referred to in paragraph (2) applied to the person serving
in that position immediately before the position is so reestablished and such provisions of law
would not otherwise apply to the person while serving in the position as so reestablished, then
such provisions of law shall, subject to paragraph (3), continue to apply to the person with respect
to service in that position for as long as the person continues to serve in the position without a
break in service.
“(2) The provisions of law referred to in paragraph (1) are the following provisions of title 5:
“(A) Section 2302, relating to prohibited personnel practices.
“(B) Chapter 75, relating to adverse actions.
“(3) (A) Notwithstanding any provision of chapter 75 of title 5, an appeal of an adverse
action by an individual employee covered by paragraph (1) shall be determined within the
Department of Defense if the employee so elects.
“(B) The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe the procedures for initiating and determining
appeals of adverse actions pursuant to elections made under subparagraph (A).
“(c) Right Of Appeal.—The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe regulations to provide a
right of appeal regarding a personnel action under this subchapter. The appeal shall be determined
within the Department of Defense. An appeal determined at the highest level provided in the
regulations shall be final and not subject to review outside the Department of Defense. A
personnel action covered by the regulations is not subject to any other provision of law that
provides appellate rights or procedures.”.

21
SECTION 6. DECORATIONS AND AWARDS.
(a) In General.—Chapter 937 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the
end the following new section:
“§ 9287. General authority to provide Space Force decorations and awards
“In addition to the decorations and awards available to all personnel of the Department of the Air
Force pursuant to the other sections of this chapter, the Secretary of the Air Force may provide
such awards and decorations as the Secretary considers appropriate to any person who, while
serving in any capacity with the Space Force, distinguished himself or herself.”.
(b) Table Of Sections Amendment.—The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is
amended by adding at the end the following new item:
“9287. General authority to provide Space Force decorations and awards.”.
SECTION 7. REPEAL OF PROVISION RELATED TO AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND.
(a) Repeal.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 2279c of title 10, United States Code, is repealed.
(2) TABLE OF SECTIONS AMENDMENT.—The table of sections at the beginning of
chapter 135 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking the item relating to
section 2279c.
(b) Continuation Of Procurement Authority.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 963 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by
inserting before section 9532 the following new section:

22
“§ 9531. Procurement of commercial satellite communications services
“The Secretary of the Air Force, in consultation with the Chief Information Officer of the
Department of Defense, shall be responsible for the procurement of commercial satellite
communications services for the Department of Defense.”.
(2) APPLICABILITY.—Section 9531 of title 10, United States Code, as added by
paragraph (1) of this subsection, shall apply with respect to services procured after the date
of the enactment of this Act.
(3) TABLE OF SECTIONS AMENDMENT.—The table of sections at the beginning of
chapter 963 of such title is amended by inserting before the item relating to section 9532 the
following new item:
“9531. Procurement of commercial satellite communications services.”.
SECTION 8. TRANSFER OF PERSONNEL, PROPERTY, AND RESOURCES AND
OTHER TRANSITION MATTERS.
(a) Transition Period.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2), for purposes of this section, the transition
period is the period that ends on the date that is five years after the date of the enactment of
this Act.
(2) EXTENSION.—The Secretary of Defense may extend the transition period
described in paragraph (1) for not more than two years if the Secretary—
(A) determines an extension is necessary to accomplish the initial establishment of
the United States Space Force; and

23
(B) submits to the congressional defense committees notice of the Secretary’s
intent to extend the transition period.
(b) Transfer Of Military Members.—
(1) TRANSFER AUTHORITY.—Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the
Secretary of Defense, in the sole and exclusive discretion of the Secretary, may, during the
transition period, transfer officers and enlisted members of the Armed Forces within the
Department of Defense to become officers and enlisted members of the United States Space
Force.
(2) BASIS.—A transfer under paragraph (1) may be made on a voluntary or involuntary
basis.
(3) STATUS OF PERSONNEL.—
(A) RETENTION OF GRADE AND STATUS.—Military personnel transferred to
the Space Force from another Armed Force within the Department of Defense pursuant
to this subsection shall retain the grade and date of obtaining such grade that the
individual person had before the date of the transfer unless otherwise altered or
terminated in accordance with law. For all purposes under law, the length, character, and
type of service of such personnel transferred to the Space Force shall be calculated to
include the same length, character, and type of service in the Armed Force from which
such personnel are transferred as if there was no break in service.
(B) RIGHTS AND BENEFITS.—No transfer under this subsection shall alter or
prejudice the status of any individual so transferred, so as to deprive the individual of
any right, benefit, or privilege to which the individual may be entitled under law due to
the service of the individual in an Armed Force within the Department of Defense other
than the Space Force.

24
(C) BONUSES.—No funds previously paid to a military member as a valid pay or
bonus provided pursuant to chapter 5 of title 37, United States Code, may be recouped if
a member’s disqualification for the pay or bonus is solely due to a transfer under this
subsection.
(c) Transfer Of Civilian Employees.—
(1) AUTHORITY.—Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of
Defense, in the sole and exclusive discretion of the Secretary, may, during the transition
period—
(A) establish regulations to effectuate any necessary transfers of civilian personnel
among the military departments and other components of the Department of Defense,
and any necessary reductions or adjustments in force; and
(B) effectuate such transfers (on a voluntary or involuntary basis) and reductions or
adjustments in force pursuant to the regulations established in subparagraph (A).
(2) NO REDUCTION IN PAY.—No employee transferred in accordance with this
subsection shall suffer any loss of or decrease in pay as a result of that transfer.
(3) EFFECT OF TRANSFER.—A personnel action taken pursuant to this subsection is
final and is not subject to any other provision of law that provides appellate rights or
procedures for civilian employees of the Department of Defense.
(d) Transfer Of Equipment, Supplies, Other Property, And Records.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of law, the Secretary of Defense, in the sole and exclusive discretion of the
Secretary, may, during the transition period, direct the transfer of equipment, supplies, other
property not deemed to be real property, and records from a military department or other
Department of Defense component to the Department of the Air Force.
(e) Transfer Of Functions.—Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of
Defense, in the sole and exclusive discretion of the Secretary, may, during the transition period,

25
transfer organizations or functions within the Department of Defense to the Space Force,
including civilian personnel, assets, equipment, and obligations of those organizations or
functions.
(f) Transfer Of Funds During Transition Period.—
(1) AUTHORITY.—Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of
Defense, in the sole and exclusive discretion of the Secretary, may, during the transition
period—
(A) transfer to the Department of the Air Force balances from appropriations or
funds currently available for obligation by the military departments and other
components of the Department of Defense from which personnel, equipment, supplies,
property, or records have been transferred pursuant to subsections (b), (c) and (d), to be
used for a purpose for which the appropriations or funds were originally available; and
(B) credit amounts transferred to an applicable existing or new appropriation
account or fund, to be merged with and to be available for the same time period as the
appropriation or fund, to which transferred.
(2) RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER LAWS.—The authority under this subsection is in
addition to any other transfer authority provided by law.
(g) Mission Assurance During Transition Period.—Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, the Secretary of Defense may, during the transition period, authorize space forces,
organizations, functions, personnel, installations, or facilities transferred to the Department of the
Air Force to be funded, operated, or controlled by another Department of Defense component,
including a military department, without compensation or reimbursement, if the Secretary
determines that action is essential to maintain space mission integrity and readiness.

26
SECTION 9. DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE PROVISIONS IN TITLE 10,
UNITED STATES CODE.
(a) Organization.—
(1) SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE.—Section 9013 of title 10, United States Code,
is amended—
(A) in subsection (f), by inserting “and Space Force” after “Officers of the Air
Force”; and
(B) in subsection (g)(1), by inserting “and Space Force” after “members of the Air
Force”.
(2) OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE.—Section 9014 of such title
is amended—
(A) in subsection (c)—
(i) in paragraph (1), by striking “and the Air Staff” and inserting “, the Air
Staff, and the Space Staff”;
(ii) in paragraph (2), by inserting “or the Space Staff” after “the Air Staff”;
(iii) in paragraph (3), by striking “to the Chief of Staff and to the Air Staff”
and all that follows through the period and inserting “to the Chief of Staff of the
Air Force and the Air Staff, and to the Chief of Staff of the Space Force and the
Space Staff, and shall ensure that each such office or entity provides each Chief of
Staff such staff support as the Chief of Staff concerned considers necessary to
perform the Chief’s duties and responsibilities.”; and
(iv) in paragraph (4)—

27
(I) by inserting “and the Space Staff” after “the Air Staff”; and
(II) by striking “Chief” and inserting “Chiefs”;
(B) in subsection (d)—
(i) in paragraph (1), by striking “and the Air Staff” and inserting “, the Air
Staff, and the Space Staff”;
(ii) in paragraph (2), by inserting “and the Space Staff” after “the Air Staff”;
and
(iii) in paragraph (4), by striking “to the Chief of Staff of the Air Force and to
the Air Staff” and all that follows through the period and inserting “to the Chief of
Staff of the Air Force and the Air Staff, and to the Chief of Staff of the Space Force
and the Space Staff, and shall ensure that such office or entity provides each Chief
of Staff such staff support as the Chief of Staff concerned considers necessary to
perform the Chief’s duties and responsibilities.”; and
(C) in subsection (e)—
(i) by striking “and the Air Staff” and inserting “, the Air Staff, and the Space
Staff”; and
(ii) by striking “to the other” and inserting “to any of the others”.
(3) SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE: SUCCESSORS TO DUTIES.—Section
9017(5) of such title, as redesignated by section 1702 of this Act, is amended by inserting
before the period the following: “of the Air Force and the Chief of Staff of the Space Force,
in the order prescribed by the Secretary of the Air Force and approved by the Secretary of
Defense”.
(4) INSPECTOR GENERAL.—Section 9020 of such title is amended—

28
(A) in subsection (a)—
(i) by inserting “Department of the” after “Inspector General of the”; and
(ii) by inserting “or the Space Force” after “general officers of the Air Force”;
(B) in subsection (b)—
(i) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking “or the Chief of Staff”
and inserting “, the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, or the Chief of Staff of the
Space Force”;
(ii) in paragraph (1), by inserting “Department of the” before “Air Force”; and
(iii) in paragraph (2), by striking “the Chief” and inserting “either Chief”; and
(C) in subsection (e), by inserting “or the Space Force” before “for a tour of duty”.
(5) THE AIR STAFF: FUNCTION; COMPOSITION.—Section 9031(b) of such title is
amended—
(A) in each of paragraphs (1), (2), (3), and (4), by inserting “of the Air Force”
before the period; and
(B) in paragraph (8), by inserting “or the Space Force” after “of the Air Force”.
(6) CHIEF OF STAFF.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The heading of section 9033 of such title is amended by
inserting “OF THE AIR FORCE” after “STAFF”.
(B) TABLE OF SECTIONS.—The item relating to section 9033 in the table of
sections at the beginning of chapter 905 of such title is amended to read as follows:

29
“9033. Chief of Staff of the Air Force.”.
(7) VICE CHIEF OF STAFF.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The heading of section 9034 of such title is amended by
inserting “OF THE AIR FORCE” after “STAFF”.
(B) TABLE OF SECTIONS.—The item relating to section 9034 in the table of
sections at the beginning of chapter 905 of such title is amended to read as follows:
“9034. Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force.”.
(8) DEPUTY CHIEFS OF STAFF AND ASSISTANT CHIEFS OF STAFF.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Section 9035 of such title is amended—
(i) in the heading, by inserting “OF THE AIR FORCE” after “STAFF” both
places it appears; and
(ii) in subsection (a), by inserting “of the Air Force” after “Staff” both places
it appears.
(B) TABLE OF SECTIONS.—The item relating to section 9035 in the table of
sections at the beginning of chapter 905 of such title is amended to read as follows:
“9034. Deputy Chiefs of Staff of the Air Force and Assistant Chiefs of Staff of the Air Force.”.
(9) SURGEON GENERAL: APPOINTMENT; DUTIES.—Section 9036 of such title is
amended—

30
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking “Secretary of the Air Force and the Chief of Staff
of the Air Force on all health and medical matters of the Air Force” and inserting
“Secretary of the Air Force, the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, and the Chief of Staff of
the Space Force on all health and medical matters of the Air Force and the Space
Force”; and
(B) in paragraph (2), by inserting “and the Space Force” after “of the Air Force”
both places it appears.
(10) JUDGE ADVOCATE GENERAL, DEPUTY JUDGE ADVOCATE GENERAL:
APPOINTMENT; DUTIES.—Section 9037 of such title is amended—
(A) in subsection (e)(2)(B), by inserting “or the Space Force” after “of the Air
Force”; and
(B) in subsection (f)(1), by striking “the Secretary of the Air Force or the Chief of
Staff of the Air Force” and inserting “the Secretary of the Air Force, the Chief of Staff
of the Air Force, or the Chief of Staff of the Space Force”.
(11) CHIEF OF CHAPLAINS: APPOINTMENT; DUTIES.—Section 9039(a) of such
title is amended by striking “in the Air Force” and inserting “for the Air Force and the Space
Force”.
(12) PROVISION OF CERTAIN PROFESSIONAL FUNCTIONS FOR THE SPACE
FORCE.—Section 9067 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(A) in subsections (a) through (i), by striking “in the Air Force” each place it
appears and inserting “in the Air Force and the Space Force”; and
(B) in subsection (i), as amended by subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, by
inserting “or the Space Force” after “members of the Air Force”.

31
(13) COMMANDS: TERRITORIAL ORGANIZATION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 909 of such title, as added by section 1701 of this
Act, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
“§ 9096. Commands: territorial organization
“(a) Except as otherwise prescribed by law or by the Secretary of Defense, the Space Force
shall be divided into such organizations as the Secretary of the Air Force may prescribe.
“(b) For Space Force purposes, the United States, its possessions, and other places in which
the Space Force is stationed or is operating, may be divided into such areas as directed by the
Secretary. Officers of the Space Force may be assigned to command Space Force activities,
installations, and personnel in those areas. In the discharge of the Space Force’s functions or other
functions authorized by law, officers so assigned have the duties and powers prescribed by the
Secretary.”.
(B) TABLE OF SECTIONS.—The table of sections at the beginning of such
chapter is amended by adding at the end the following new item:
“9096. Commands: territorial organization.”.
(14) OFFICER CAREER FIELD FOR SPACE.—Section 9084 of such title is repealed.
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 907 of such title is amended by striking the
item relating to such section.
(15) REGULAR SPACE FORCE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 909 of such title, as added by section 1701 of this
Act, is further amended by adding at the end the following new section:

32
“§ 9097. Regular Space Force: composition
“(a) The Regular Space Force is the component of the Space Force that consists of persons
whose continuous service on active duty in both peace and war is contemplated by law, and of
retired members of the Regular Space Force.
“(b) The Regular Space Force includes—
“(1) the officers and enlisted members of the Regular Space Force; and
“(2) the retired officers and enlisted members of the Regular Space Force.”.
(B) TABLE OF SECTIONS.—The table of sections at the beginning of such
chapter is amended by adding at the end the following new item:
“9097. Regular Space Force: composition.”.
(16) TABLE OF CHAPTERS.—The table of chapters for part I of subtitle D of title 10,
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new item:
● “909. The Space Force 9091”.
(b) Personnel.—
(1) GENDER-FREE BASIS FOR ACCEPTANCE OF ORIGINAL ENLISTMENTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Section 9132 of such title is amended—

33
(i) in the heading, by inserting “AND REGULAR SPACE FORCE” before the
colon; and
(ii) by inserting “or the Regular Space Force” after “Regular Air Force”.
(B) TABLE OF SECTIONS.—The item relating to section 9132 in the table of
sections at the beginning of chapter 913 of such title is amended to read as follows:
“9132. Regular Air Force and Regular Space Force: gender-free basis for acceptance of original enlistments.”.
(2) REENLISTMENT AFTER SERVICE AS AN OFFICER.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Section 9138 of such title is amended—
(i) in the heading, by inserting “AND REGULAR SPACE FORCE” before the
colon; and
(ii) in subsection (a)—
(I) by inserting “or the Regular Space Force” after “Regular Air Force”
both places it appears; and
(II) by inserting “or the Space Force” after “officer of the Air Force”
both places it appears.
(B) TABLE OF SECTIONS.—The item relating to section 9138 in the table of
sections at the beginning of chapter 913 of such title is amended to read as follows:
“9138. Regular Air Force and Regular Space Force: reenlistment after service as an officer.”.

34
(3) APPOINTMENTS IN THE REGULAR AIR FORCE AND THE REGULAR
SPACE FORCE.—
AND
(A) The heading of chapter 915 of such title is amended by adding “
REGULAR SPACE FORCE AIR FORCE
” after “ ”, and the item
relating to such chapter in the table of chapters at the beginning of part II of subtitle D
of such title is amended by inserting “and Regular Space Force” after “Air Force”.
(B) Section 9151 of such title is amended by inserting “and the Regular Space
Force” after “Regular Air Force”.
(C) Section 9160 of such title is amended—
(i) by inserting “or the Regular Space Force” after “Regular Air Force”; and
(ii) by inserting “or the Space Force” before the period.
(4) RETIRED COMMISSIONED OFFICERS: STATUS.—Section 9203 of such title is
amended by inserting “or the Space Force” after “the Air Force”.
(5) DUTIES: CHAPLAINS; ASSISTANCE REQUIRED OF COMMANDING
OFFICERS.—Section 9217(a) of such title is amended by inserting “or the Space Force”
after “the Air Force”.
(6) RANK: COMMISSIONED OFFICERS SERVING UNDER TEMPORARY
APPOINTMENTS.—Section 9222 of such title is amended by inserting “or the Space
Force” after “the Air Force” both places it appears.
(7) REQUIREMENT OF EXEMPLARY CONDUCT.—Section 9233 of such title is
amended by inserting “and the Space Force” after “the Air Force” each place it appears.

35
(8) ENLISTED MEMBERS: OFFICERS NOT TO USE AS SERVANTS.—Section
9239 of such title is amended by inserting “or the Space Force” after “Air Force” both places
it appears.
(9) PRESENTATION OF UNITED STATES FLAG UPON RETIREMENT.—Section
9251(a) of such title is amended by inserting “or the Space Force” after “member of the Air
Force”.
(10) SERVICE CREDIT: REGULAR ENLISTED MEMBERS; SERVICE AS AN
OFFICER TO BE COUNTED AS ENLISTED SERVICE.—Section 9252 of such title is
amended—
(A) by inserting “or the Regular Space Force” after “Regular Air Force”; and
(B) by inserting “in the Space Force,” after “in the Air Force,”.
(11) WHEN SECRETARY MAY REQUIRE HOSPITALIZATION.—Section 9263 of
such title is amended by inserting “or the Space Force” after “member of the Air Force”.
(12) DECORATIONS AND AWARDS.— (A) Chapter 937 of such title is amended by
inserting “or the Space Force” after “the Air Force” each place it appears in the following
provisions:
(i) Section 9271.
(ii) Section 9273.
(iii) Section 9281 other than the first reference in subsection (a).
(iv) Section 9286(a) other than the first reference.
(B) Section 9272 of such title is amended by inserting “or the Space Force” after “with
the Air Force”.

36
(C) Section 9275 of such title is amended by inserting “or space” after “separate air”.
(D) Section 9276 of such title is amended by inserting “or the Space Force” after “with
the Air Force”.
(E) (i) Such chapter is further amended by inserting after section 9280 the following
new section:
“§ 9280a. Space Force Medal: award; limitations
“(a) The President may award a decoration called the ‘Space Force Medal’, of appropriate
design with accompanying ribbon, to any person who, while serving in any capacity with the
Space Force, distinguishes himself or herself by heroism not involving actual conflict with an
enemy.
“(b) Not more than one Space Force Medal may be awarded to a person. However, for each
succeeding act that would otherwise justify award of such a medal, the President may award a
suitable bar or other device to be worn as the President directs.”.
(ii) The table of sections at the beginning of such title is amended by inserting after the
item relating to section 9280 the following new item:
“9280a. Space Force Medal: award; limitations.”.
(13) TWENTY YEARS OR MORE: REGULAR OR RESERVE COMMISSIONED
OFFICERS.—Section 9311(a) of such title is amended by inserting “or the Space Force”
after “officer of the Air Force”.
(14) TWENTY TO THIRTY YEARS: ENLISTED MEMBERS.—Section 9314 of such
title is amended by inserting “or the Space Force” after “member of the Air Force”.

37
(15) THIRTY YEARS OR MORE: REGULAR ENLISTED MEMBERS.—Section
9317 of such title is amended by inserting “or the Space Force” after “Air Force”.
(16) THIRTY YEARS OR MORE: REGULAR COMMISSIONED
OFFICERS.—Section 9318 of such title is amended by inserting “or the Space Force” after
“Air Force”.
(17) FORTY YEARS OR MORE: AIR FORCE OFFICERS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Section 9324 of such title is amended—
(i) in the heading, by inserting “AND SPACE FORCE” after “AIR FORCE”;
and
(ii) in subsections (a) and (b), by inserting “or the Space Force” after “Air
Force”.
(B) TABLE OF SECTIONS.—The item relating to section 9324 in the table of
sections at the beginning of chapter 941 of such title is amended to read as follows:
“9124. Forty years or more: Air Force and Space Force officers.”.
(18) COMPUTATION OF YEARS OF SERVICE: VOLUNTARY RETIREMENT;
ENLISTED MEMBERS.—Section 9325(a) of such title is amended by inserting “or the
Space Force” after “Air Force”.
(19) COMPUTATION OF YEARS OF SERVICE: VOLUNTARY RETIREMENT;
REGULAR AND RESERVE COMMISSIONED OFFICERS.—Section 9326(a) of such title
is amended by inserting “or the Space Force” after “Air Force” both places it appears.

38
(20) COMPUTATION OF RETIRED PAY: LAW APPLICABLE.—Section 9329 of
such title is amended by inserting “or the Space Force” after “Air Force”.
(21) RETIRED GRADE.—
(A) Section 9341 of such title is amended—
(i) in subsection (a), by inserting “or the Space Force” after “regular
commissioned officer of the Air Force”; and
(ii) in subsection (b), by inserting “or a Regular of the Space Force” after “Air
Force”.
(B) Section 9344 of such title is amended—
(i) in subsection (a), by inserting “or the Space Force” after “member of the
Air Force”;
(ii) in subsection (b)(1), by inserting “or the Space Force” after “Air Force”;
and
(iii) in subsection (b)(2), by inserting “or the Regular Space Force” after
“Regular Air Force”.
(C) Section 9345 of such title is amended by inserting “or the Space Force” after
“member of the Air Force”.
(D) Section 9346 of such title is amended—
(i) in subsections (a) and (d), by inserting “or the Regular Space Force” after
“Regular Air Force”;

39
(ii) in subsection (b)(1), by inserting before the semicolon the following: “, or
for commissioned officers of the Space Force other than of the Regular Space
Force”; and
(iii) in subsections (b)(2) and (c), by inserting “or the Space Force” after “Air
Force”.
(22) RECOMPUTATION OF RETIRED PAY TO REFLECT ADVANCEMENT ON
RETIRED LIST.—Section 9362(a) of such title is amended by inserting “or the Space
Force” after “Air Force”.
(23) FATALITY REVIEWS.—Section 9391(a) of such title, as redesignated by section
1704(a)(2) of this title, is amended by inserting “or the Space Force” after “Air Force” in
each of paragraphs (1), (2), and (3).
(c) Training.—
(1) MEMBERS OF AIR FORCE: DETAIL AS STUDENTS, OBSERVERS, AND
INVESTIGATORS AT EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS, INDUSTRIAL PLANTS, AND
HOSPITALS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Section 9401 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(i) in the heading, by inserting “AND SPACE FORCE” after “AIR FORCE”;
(ii) in subsection (a), by inserting “and the Space Force” after “members of
the Air Force”;
(iii) in subsection (b), by inserting “or the Regular Space Force” after
“Regular Air Force”;
(iv) in subsection (e), by inserting “or the Space Force” after “Air Force”; and

40
(v) in subsection (f)—
(I) by inserting “or the Regular Space Force” after “Regular Air Force”;
and
(II) by inserting “or the Space Force” after “the Air Force”.
(B) TABLE OF SECTIONS.—The item relating to section 9401 in the table of
sections at the beginning of chapter 951 of such title is amended to read as follows:
“9401. Members of Air Force and Space Force: detail as students, observers, and investigators at educational
institutions, industrial plants, and hospitals.”.
(2) ENLISTED MEMBERS OF AIR FORCE: SCHOOLS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Section 9402 of such title is amended—
(i) in the heading, by inserting “OR SPACE FORCE” after “AIR FORCE”;
(ii) in subsection (a)—
(I) in the first sentence, by inserting “and the Space Force” after
“members of the Air Force”; and
(II) in the third sentence, by inserting “and Space Force officers” after
“Air Force officers”; and
(iii) in subsection (b), by inserting “or the Space Force” after “Air Force” each
place it appears.
(B) TABLE OF SECTIONS.—The item relating to section 9402 in the table of
sections at the beginning of chapter 951 of such title is amended to read as follows:

41
“9402. Enlisted members of Air Force or Space Force: schools.”.
(3) AVIATION STUDENTS: DETAIL OF ENLISTED MEMBERS OF AIR
FORCE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Section 9404 of such title is amended—
(i) in the heading, by inserting “OR SPACE FORCE” after “AIR FORCE”;
and
(ii) by inserting “or the Space Force” after “Regulars of the Air Force”.
(B) TABLE OF SECTIONS.—The item relating to section 9404 in the table of
sections at the beginning of chapter 951 of such title is amended to read as follows:
“9402. Aviation students: detail of enlisted members of Air Force or Space Force.”.
(4) SERVICE SCHOOLS: LEAVES OF ABSENCE FOR INSTRUCTORS.—Section
9406 of such title is amended by inserting “or Space Force” after “Air Force”.
(5) DEGREE GRANTING AUTHORITY FOR UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY.—Section 9414(d)(1) of such title is amended by inserting
“and the Space Force” after “needs of the Air Force”.
(6) UNITED STATES AIR FORCE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY:
ADMINISTRATION.—Section 9414b(a)(2) is amended by inserting “or the Space Force”
after “the Air Force” each place it appears.
(7) COMMUNITY COLLEGE OF THE AIR FORCE: ASSOCIATE
DEGREES.—Section 9415 of such title is amended—

42
(A) in subsection (a) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking “in the Air
Force” and inserting “in the Department of the Air Force”;
(B) in subsection (b)(1), by inserting “or the Space Force” after “Air Force”; and
(C) in subsection (b)(2), by striking “other than” and all that follows through
“schools” and inserting “other than the Air Force or the Space Force who are serving as
instructors at Department of the Air Force training schools”.
(8) AIR FORCE ACADEMY ESTABLISHMENT; SUPERINTENDENT;
FACULTY.—Section 9431(a) of such title is amended by striking “Air Force cadets” and
inserting “cadets”.
(9) AIR FORCE ACADEMY SUPERINTENDENT; FACULTY: APPOINTMENT
AND DETAIL.—Section 9433(a) of such title is amended by inserting “or the Space Force”
after “Air Force”.
(10) AIR FORCE ACADEMY PERMANENT PROFESSORS; DIRECTOR OF
ADMISSIONS.—Section 9436 of such title is amended by inserting “or the Regular Space
Force” after “Regular Air Force” each place it appears.
(11) CADETS: APPOINTMENT; NUMBERS, TERRITORIAL
DISTRIBUTION.—Section 9442 of such title is amended—
(A) by striking “Air Force Cadets” each place it appears and inserting “cadets”;
and
(B) in subsection (b)—
(i) in paragraph (2), by inserting “or the Regular Space Force” after “Regular
Air Force”; and
(ii) in paragraph (3), by inserting “or the Space Force” after “Air Force”.

43
(12) CADETS: AGREEMENT TO SERVE AS OFFICER.—Section 9448(a)(2)(A) of
such title is amended by inserting “or the Regular Space Force” after “Regular Air Force”.
(13) CADETS: ORGANIZATION; SERVICE; INSTRUCTION.—Section 9449 of such
title is amended by striking subsection (d).
(14) CADETS: HAZING.—Section 9452(c) of such title is amended—
(A) by striking “Air Force cadet” and inserting “cadet”; and
(B) by striking “or Marine Corps” and inserting “Marine Corps, or Space Force”.
(15) CADETS: DEGREE AND COMMISSION ON GRADUATION.—Section
9453(b) of such title is amended by inserting “or the Regular Space Force” after “Regular Air
Force”.
(16) SUPPORT OF ATHLETIC PROGRAMS.—Section 9462(c)(2) of such title is
amended by striking “personnel of the Air Force” and inserting “personnel of the Department
of the Air Force”.
(17) SCHOOLS AND CAMPS: ESTABLISHMENT: PURPOSE.—Section 9481 of
such title is amended by inserting “, the Space Force,” after “members of the Air Force,”.
(18) SCHOOLS AND CAMPS: OPERATION.—Section 9482 of such title is
amended—
(A) in paragraph (4), by inserting “or the Regular Space Force” after “Regular Air
Force”; and
(B) in paragraph (7) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by inserting “or
Space Force” after “Air Force”.
(d) Service, Supply, And Procurement.—

44
(1) EQUIPMENT: BAKERIES, SCHOOLS, KITCHENS, AND MESS
HALLS.—Section 9536 of title 10, United States Code, is amended in the matter preceding
paragraph (1) by inserting “or the Space Force” after “the Air Force”.
(2) RATION.—Section 9561 of such title is amended—
(A) in subsection (a)—
(i) in the first sentence, by inserting “and the Space Force ration” after “the
Air Force ration”; and
(ii) in the second sentence, by inserting “or the Space Force” after “the Air
Force”; and
(B) in subsection (b), by inserting “or the Space Force” after “the Air Force”.
(3) CLOTHING.—Section 9562 of such title is amended by inserting “and the Space
Force” after “the Air Force”.
(4) CLOTHING: REPLACEMENT WHEN DESTROYED TO PREVENT
CONTAGION.—Section 9563 of such title is amended by inserting “or the Space Force”
after “member of the Air Force”.
(5) COLORS, STANDARDS, AND GUIDONS OF DEMOBILIZED
ORGANIZATIONS: DISPOSITION.—Section 9565 of such title is amended—
(A) in subsection (a) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by inserting “or the
Space Force” after “organizations of the Air Force”; and
(B) in subsection (b), by inserting “or the Space Force” after “the Air Force”.
(6) UTILITIES: PROCEEDS FROM OVERSEAS OPERATIONS.—Section 9591 of
such title is amended by inserting “or the Space Force” after “the Air Force”.

45
(7) QUARTERS: HEAT AND LIGHT.—Section 9593 of such title is amended by
inserting “and the Space Force” after “the Air Force”.
(8) AIR FORCE MILITARY HISTORY INSTITUTE: FEE FOR PROVIDING
HISTORICAL INFORMATION TO THE PUBLIC.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Section 9594 of such title is amended—
(i) in the heading, by inserting “DEPARTMENT OF THE” before “AIR
FORCE”;
(ii) in subsections (a) and (d), by inserting “Department of the” before “Air
Force Military History” each place it appears; and
(iii) in subsection (e)(1)—
(I) by inserting “Department of the” before “Air Force Military History”;
and
(II) by inserting “and the Space Force” after “materials of the Air Force”.
(B) TABLE OF SECTIONS.—The item relating to section 9594 in the table of
sections at the beginning of chapter 9657 of such title is amended to read as follows:
“9594. Department of the Air Force Military History Institute: fee for providing historical information to the public.”.
(9) SUBSISTENCE AND OTHER SUPPLIES: MEMBERS OF ARMED FORCES;
VETERANS; EXECUTIVE OR MILITARY DEPARTMENTS AND EMPLOYEES;
PRICES.—Section 9621 of such title is amended—
(A) in subsection (a)—

46
(i) in paragraph (1), by inserting “and the Space Force” after “the Air Force”;
and
(ii) in paragraph (2), by inserting “and the Space Force” after “the Air Force”;
(B) in subsection (b), by inserting “or the Space Force” after “the Air Force”;
(C) in subsection (c), by inserting “or the Space Force” after “the Air Force”;
(D) in subsection (d), by striking “or Marine Corps” and inserting “Marine Corps,
or Space Force”;
(E) in subsection (e), by inserting “or the Space Force” after “the Air Force” each
place it appears;
(F) in subsection (f), by inserting “or the Space Force” after “the Air Force”; and
(G) in subsection (h), by inserting “or the Space Force” after “the Air Force” each
place it appears.
(10) RATIONS: COMMISSIONED OFFICERS IN FIELD.—Section 9622 of such title
is amended by inserting “and the Space Force” after “officers of the Air Force”.
(11) MEDICAL SUPPLIES: CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES OF THE AIR
FORCE.—Section 9624(a) of such title is amended—
(A) by striking “air base” and inserting “Air Force or Space Force military
installation”; and
(B) by striking “Air Force when” and inserting “Department of the Air Force
when”.

47
(12) ORDNANCE PROPERTY: OFFICERS OF ARMED FORCES; CIVILIAN
EMPLOYEES OF AIR FORCE.—Section 9625 of such title is amended—
(A) in subsection (a), by inserting “or the Space Force” after “officers of the Air
Force”; and
(B) in subsection (c), by striking “Air Force” and inserting “Department of the Air
Force”.
(13) SUPPLIES: EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS.—Section 9627 of such title is
amended—
(A) by inserting “or the Space Force” after “for the Air Force”;
(B) by inserting “or the Space Force” after “officer of the Air Force”; and
(C) by inserting “and space” after “professor of air”.
(14) AIRPLANE PARTS AND ACCESSORIES: CIVILIAN FLYING
SCHOOLS.—Section 9628 of such title is amended by inserting “or the Space Force” after
“airplanes of the Air Force”.
(15) SUPPLIES: MILITARY INSTRUCTION CAMPS.—Section 9654 of such title is
amended by inserting “or Space Force” after “an Air Force”.
(16) DISPOSITION OF EFFECTS OF DECEASED PERSONS BY SUMMARY
COURT-MARTIAL.—Section 9712(a) of such title is amended—
(A) in paragraph (1), by inserting “or the Space Force” after “the Air Force”; and
(B) in paragraph (2), by inserting “or Space Force” after “Air Force”.

48
(17) ACCEPTANCE OF DONATIONS: LAND FOR MOBILIZATION, TRAINING,
SUPPLY BASE, OR AVIATION FIELD.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Section 9771 of such title is amended—
(i) in the heading, by striking “OR AVIATION FIELD” and inserting
“AVIATION FIELD, OR SPACE-RELATED FACILITY”; and
(ii) in paragraph (2), by inserting “or space-related facility” after “aviation
field”.
(B) TABLE OF SECTIONS.—The item relating to section 9771 in the table of
sections at the beginning of chapter 979 of such title is amended to read as follows:
“9771. Acceptance of donations: land for mobilization, training, supply base, aviation field, or space-related facility.”.
(18) ACQUISITION AND CONSTRUCTION: AIR BASES AND DEPOTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Section 9773 of such title is amended—
(i) in subsection (a)—
(I) by striking “permanent air bases” and inserting “permanent Air Force
and Space Force military installations”;
(II) by striking “existing air bases” and inserting “existing installations”;
and
(III) by inserting “or the Space Force” after “training of the Air Force”;
(ii) in the heading and in subsections (b) and (c), by striking “air bases” each
place it appears and inserting “installations”; and

49
(iii) in subsection (c)—
(I) in paragraph (1), by inserting “or Space Force” after “Air Force”; and
(II) in paragraphs (3) and (4), by inserting “or the Space Force” after
“Air Force” both places it appears.
(B) TABLE OF SECTIONS.—The item relating to section 9773 in the table of
sections at the beginning of chapter 979 of such title is amended to read as follows:
“9773. Acquisition and construction: installations and depots.”.
(19) EMERGENCY CONSTRUCTION: FORTIFICATIONS.—Section 9776 of such
title is amended by striking “air base” and inserting “installation”.
(20) USE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.—Section 9779(a) of such title is amended by
inserting “or the Space Force” after “economy of the Air Force”.
(21) DISPOSITION OF REAL PROPERTY AT MISSILE SITES.—Section 9781(a)(2)
of such title is amended—
(A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking “Air Force” and inserting
“Department of the Air Force”;
(B) in subparagraph (A), by striking “Air Force” the first two places it appears and
inserting “Department of the Air Force”; and
(C) in subparagraph (C), by striking “Air Force” and inserting “Department of the
Air Force”.

50
(22) MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR OF REAL PROPERTY.—Section 9782 of such
title is amended in subsections (c) and (d) by inserting “or the Space Force” after “the Air
Force” both places it appears.
(23) SETTLEMENT OF ACCOUNTS: REMISSION OR CANCELLATION OF
INDEBTEDNESS OF MEMBERS.—Section 9837(a) of such title is amended by inserting
“or the Space Force” after “member of the Air Force”.
(24) FINAL SETTLEMENT OF OFFICER’S ACCOUNTS.—Section 9840 of such
title is amended by inserting “or the Space Force” after “Air Force”.
(25) PAYMENT OF SMALL AMOUNTS TO PUBLIC CREDITORS.—Section 9841
of such title is amended by inserting “or Space Force” after “official of Air Force”.
(26) SETTLEMENT OF ACCOUNTS OF LINE OFFICERS.—Section 9842 of such
title is amended—
(A) by inserting “or the Space Force” after “Air Force”; and
(B) by striking “Comptroller General” both places it appears and inserting
“Secretary of the Air Force”.
SECTION 10. OTHER PROVISIONS OF TITLE 10, UNITED STATES CODE.
(a) Table Of Subtitles.—The table of subtitles at the beginning of title 10, United States
Code, is amended by striking the item relating to subtitle D and inserting the following new item:
● “D. Air Force and Space Force 9011”.

51
(b) Definitions.—Section 101 of such title is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) in paragraph (4), by inserting “Space Force,” after “Marine Corps,”; and
(B) in paragraph (9)(C), by inserting “and the Space Force” after “concerning the
Air Force”; and
(2) in subsection (b)—
(A) in paragraph (4), by striking “or Marine Corps” and inserting “Marine Corps,
or Space Force”; and
(B) in paragraph (13), by striking “or Marine Corps” and inserting “Marine Corps,
or Space Force”.
(c) Other Provisions Of Subtitle A.—
(1) SPACE FORCE I.—Subtitle A of such title is further amended by striking “and
Marine Corps” each place it appears and inserting “Marine Corps, and Space Force” in the
following provisions:
(A) Section 116(a)(1) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A).
(B) Section 533(a)(2).
(C) The item relating to section 632 in the table of sections at the beginning of
subchapter III of chapter 36.
(D) The heading of section 632.

52
(E) Section 645(1)(A).
(F) Section 646.
(G) Section 661(a).
(H) Section 712(a).
(I) Section 717(c)(1).
(J) Section 741 (including the table in subsection (a)).
(K) Section 1111(b)(4).
(L) Subsections (a)(2)(A) and (c)(2)(A)(ii) of section 1143.
(M) Section 1174(j).
(N) Subparagraphs (F) and (G) of section 1370(a)(2).
(O) Section 1463(a).
(P) Section 1566.
(Q) Section 2217(c).
(R) Section 2259(a).
(S) Section 2640(j).
(2) SPACE FORCE II.—Such subtitle is further amended by striking “Marine Corps,”
each place it appears and inserting “Marine Corps, Space Force,” in the following provisions:
(A) Section 123(a).

53
(B) Section 172(a).
(C) Section 518.
(D) The item relating to section 747 in the table of sections at the beginning of
chapter 43.
(E) Section 747 (including the heading).
(F) Section 749.
(G) Section 1552(c).
(H) Section 2632(c).
(I) Section 2686(a).
(J) Section 2733(a).
(3) SPACE FORCE III.—Such subtitle is further amended by striking “or Marine
Corps” each place it appears and inserting “Marine Corps, or Space Force” in the following
provisions:
(A) Section 125(b).
(B) Section 275.
(C) Subsection (b)(2) and the first place it appears in subsection (e) of section 533.
(D) Section 541(a).
(E) Section 601(a).
(F) Section 603(a).

54
(G) Section 605.
(H) Section 611(a).
(I) Section 619(a).
(J) Section 619a(a).
(K) Section 623(c).
(L) Section 625(b).
(M) Section 631.
(N) Section 632(a).
(O) Section 637(a)(2).
(P) Section 638(a).
(Q) Section 741.
(R) Section 771.
(S) Section 772.
(T) Section 773.
(U) Section 1123.
(V) Section 1143(d).
(W) Section 1174(a)(2).
(X) Section 1251(a).

55
(Y) Section 1252(a).
(Z) Section 1253(a).
(AA) Paragraphs (1) and (2)(A) of section 1370(a).
(BB) Section 1375.
(CC) Section 1413a(h).
(DD) Section 1551.
(EE) Section 1561(a).
(FF) Section 1733(b)(1)(A)(ii).
(GG) Section 2102(a).
(HH) Section 2103a(a).
(II) Section 2104.
(JJ) Section 2107.
(KK) Section 2421.
(LL) Section 2631(a).
(MM) Section 2787(a).
(4) REGULAR SPACE FORCE I.—Such subtitle is further amended by striking “or
Regular Marine Corps” each place it appears and inserting “Regular Marine Corps, or
Regular Space Force” in the following provisions:
(A) Section 531(c).

56
(B) Section 532(a) in the matter preceding paragraph (1).
(C) Subsections (a)(1), (b)(1), and (f) of section 533.
(D) Section 633(a).
(E) Section 634(a).
(F) Section 635.
(G) Section 636(a).
(H) Section 647(c).
(I) Section 688(b)(1).
(J) Section 1181.
(5) REGULAR SPACE FORCE II.—Such subtitle is further amended by striking
“Regular Marine Corps,” each place it appears and inserting “Regular Marine Corps, Regular
Space Force,” in the following provisions:
(A) Section 505.
(B) Section 506.
(C) Section 508.
(6) ARMED FORCES POLICY COUNCIL.—Section 171 of such title is amended—
(A) in paragraph (12), by striking “and”;
(B) in paragraph (13), by striking the period and inserting “; and”; and
(C) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

57
“(14) the Chief of Staff of the Space Force.”.
(7) JOINT REQUIREMENTS OVERSIGHT COUNCIL.—Section 181(c)(1) of such
title is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
“(F) A Space Force officer in the grade of general.”.
(8) UNFUNDED PRIORITIES.—Section 222a(b) of such title is amended—
(A) by redesignating paragraph (5) as paragraph (6); and
(B) by inserting after paragraph (4) the following new paragraph:
“(5) The Chief of Staff of the Space Force.”.
(9) THEATER SECURITY COOPERATION EXPENSES.—Section 312(b)(3) of such
title is amended by inserting “the Chief of Staff of the Space Force,” after “the Commandant
of the Marine Corps,”.
(10) WESTERN HEMISPHERE INSTITUTE.—Section 343(e)(1)(E) of such title is
amended by inserting “or Space Force” after “for the Air Force”.
(11) ORIGINAL APPOINTMENTS OF COMMISSIONED OFFICERS.—Section
531(a) of such title is amended by striking “and Regular Marine Corps” each place it appears
and inserting “Regular Marine Corps, and Regular Space Force”.
(12) SERVICE CREDIT.—Section 533(e) of such title is further amended by striking
“Air Force or Marine Corps” and inserting “Air Force, Marine Corps, or Space Force”.
(13) SENIOR MEMBERS OF MILITARY STAFF COMMITTEE OF UNITED
NATIONS.—Section 711 of such title is amended by inserting “or Space Force” after “Air
Force”.

58
(14) RANK: CHIEF OF STAFF.—Chapter 43 of such title is amended—
(A) in the table of sections at the beginning by striking the item relating to section
743 and inserting the following new item:
“743. Rank: Chief of Staff of the Army; Chief of Naval Operations; Chief of Staff of the Air Force; Commandant of
the Marine Corps; Chief of Staff of the Space Force.”;
and
(B) in section 743—
(i) in the heading, by inserting “; CHIEF OF STAFF OF THE SPACE
FORCE” after “COMMANDANT OF THE MARINE CORPS”;
(ii) by striking “and the Commandant of the Marine Corps” and inserting “the
Commandant of the Marine Corps, and the Chief of Staff of the Space Force”; and
(iii) by striking “and Marine Corps” and inserting “Marine Corps, and Space
Force”.
(15) UNIFORM CODE OF MILITARY JUSTICE.—Chapter 47 of such title (Uniform
Code of Military Justice) is amended—
(A) in section 822(a) (article 22)—
(i) in paragraph (5), by striking “or Marine Corps” and inserting “Marine
Corps, or Space Force”; and
(ii) in paragraph (7), by striking “or Marine Corps” and inserting “, Marine
Corps, or Space Force”;

59
(B) in section 823(a) (article 23)—
(i) in paragraph (2)—
(I) by striking “Air Force base” and inserting “Air Force or Space Force
military installation”; and
(II) by striking “or the Air Force” and inserting “the Air Force, or the
Space Force”; and
(ii) in paragraph (4), by inserting “or a corresponding unit of the Space Force”
after “Air Force”; and
(C) in section 824(a)(3) (article 24), by inserting “or a corresponding unit of the
Space Force” after “Air Force”.
(16) SERVICE AS CADET OR MIDSHIPMAN NOT COUNTED FOR LENGTH OF
SERVICE.—Section 971(b)(2) of such title is amended by striking “or Air Force” and
inserting “, Air Force, or Space Force”.
(17) REFERRAL BONUS.—Section 1030(h)(3) of such title is amended by inserting
“and the Space Force” after “concerning the Air Force”.
(18) RETURN TO ACTIVE DUTY FROM TEMPORARY DISABILITY.—Section
1211(a) of such title is amended—
(A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking “or the Air Force” and
inserting “, the Air Force, or the Space Force”; and
(B) in paragraph (6)—
(i) by striking “or the Air Force, who” and inserting “the Air Force, or the
Space Force who”; and

60
(ii) by striking “or the Air Force, as” and inserting “the Air Force, or the
Space Force, as”.
(19) YEARS OF SERVICE.—Section 1405(c) of such title is amended by striking “or
Air Force” and inserting “, Air Force, or Space Force”.
(20) RETIRED PAY BASE FOR PERSONS WHO BECAME MEMBERS BEFORE
SEPTEMBER 8, 1980.—Section 1406 of such title is amended—
(A) in the heading of subsection (e), by inserting “And Space Force” after “Air
Force”; and
(B) in subsection (i)(3)—
(i) in subparagraph (A)—
(I) by redesignating clause (v) as clause (vi); and
(II) by inserting after clause (iv) the following new clause:
“(v) Chief of Staff of the Space Force.”;
and
(ii) in subparagraph (B)—
(I) by redesignating clause (v) as clause (vi); and
(II) by inserting after clause (iv) the following new clause:
“(v) Chief Master Sergeant of the Space Force.”.
(21) SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR MILITARY PERSONNEL IN ACQUISITION
FIELD.—Section 1722a(a) of such title is amended by striking “and the Commandant of the
Marine Corps (with respect to the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps, respectively)”

61
and inserting “, the Commandant of the Marine Corps, and the Chief of Staff of the Space
Force (with respect to the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, and Space Force,
respectively)”.
(22) SENIOR MILITARY ACQUISITION ADVISORS.—Section 1725(e)(1)(C) of
such title is amended by inserting “and Space Force” before the period.
(23) MILITARY FAMILY READINESS COUNCIL.—Section 1781a(b)(1) of such title
is amended by striking “Marine Corps, and Air Force” each place it appears and inserting
“Air Force, Marine Corps, and Space Force”.
(24) ACQUISITION-RELATED FUNCTIONS OF CHIEFS OF THE ARMED
FORCES.—Section 2547(a) of such title is amended by striking “and the Commandant of
the Marine Corps” and inserting “the Commandant of the Marine Corps, and the Chief of
Staff of the Space Force”.
(25) AGREEMENTS RELATED TO MILITARY TRAINING, TESTING, AND
OPERATIONS.—Section 2684a(i) of such title is amended by inserting “Space Force,”
before “or Defense-wide activities” each place it appears.
(d) Provisions Of Subtitle B.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle B of such title is amended by striking “or Marine Corps”
each place it appears and inserting “Marine Corps, or Space Force” in the following
provisions:
(A) Section 7452(c).
(B) Section 7621(d).
(2) COMPUTATION OF YEARS OF SERVICE.—Section 7326(a)(1) of such title is
amended by striking “or the Air Force” and inserting “, the Air Force, or the Space Force”.

62
(e) Provisions Of Subtitle C.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle C of such title is amended by striking “or Marine Corps”
each place it appears and inserting “Marine Corps, or Space Force” in the following
provisions:
(A) Section 8464(f).
(B) Section 8806(d).
(2) SALES PRICES.—Chapter 879 of such title is amended—
(A) in the table of sections at the beginning by striking the item relating to section
8802 and inserting the following:
“8802. Sales: members of Army, Air Force, and Space Force; prices.”;
and
(B) in section 8802—
(i) in the heading, by striking “AND AIR FORCE” and inserting “, AIR
FORCE, AND SPACE FORCE”; and
(ii) by striking “or the Air Force” and inserting “, the Air Force, or the Space
Force”.
(3) SALES TO CERTAIN VETERANS.—Section 8803 of such title is amended by
striking “or the Marine Corps” and inserting “the Marine Corps, or the Space Force”.
(4) SCOPE OF CHAPTER ON PRIZE.—Section 8851 of such title is amended by
striking “or the Air Force” and inserting “, the Air Force, or the Space Force”.

63
SECTION 11. TITLE 5, UNITED STATES CODE.
(a) Armed Forces Definition.—Section 2101(2) of title 5, United States Code, is amended by
inserting after “Marine Corps,” the following: “Space Force,”.
(b) Position At Level III.—Section 5314 of such title is amended by striking “Under
Secretary of the Air Force” and inserting “Under Secretaries of the Air Force.”.
SECTION 12. TITLE 14, UNITED STATES CODE.
(a) Voluntary Retirement.—Section 291 of title 14, United States Code, is amended by
striking “or Marine Corps” and inserting “Marine Corps, or Space Force”.
(b) Computation Of Length Of Service.—Section 467 of such title is amended by inserting
after “Air Force,” the following: “Space Force,”.
SECTION 13. TITLE 18, UNITED STATES CODE.
(a) Posse Comitatus.—Section 1385 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by striking
“or the Air Force” and inserting “, the Air Force, or the Space Force”.
(b) Firearms As Nonmailable.—Section 1715 of such title is amended by inserting “Space
Force,” after “Marine Corps,”.
SECTION 14. TITLE 31, UNITED STATES CODE.
(a) Definitions Relating To Claims.—Section 3701(a)(7) of title 31, United States Code, is
amended by inserting “Space Force,” after “Marine Corps,”.
(b) Collection And Compromise.—Section 3711(f) of such title is amended in paragraphs (1)
and (3) by inserting “Space Force,” after “Marine Corps,” each place it appears.
SECTION 15 TITLE 37, UNITED STATES CODE.

64
(a) Definitions.—Section 101 of title 37, United States Code, is amended—
(1) in paragraphs (3) and (4), by inserting “Space Force,” after “Marine Corps,” each
place it appears; and
(2) in paragraph (5)(C), by inserting “and the Space Force” after “Air Force”.
(b) Basic Pay Rates.—
(1) COMMISSIONED OFFICERS.—Footnote 2 of the table titled “COMMISSIONED
OFFICERS” in section 601(c) of the John Warner National Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law 109–364; 37 U.S.C. 1009 note) is amended by inserting after
“Commandant of the Marine Corps,” the following: “Chief of Staff of the Space Force,”.
(2) ENLISTED MEMBERS.—Footnote 2 of the table titled “ENLISTED MEMBERS”
in section 601(c) of the John Warner National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2007 (Public Law 109–364; 37 U.S.C. 1009 note) is amended by inserting after “Sergeant
Major of the Marine Corps,” the following: “Chief Master Sergeant of the Space Force,”.
(c) Pay Grades: Assignment To; General Rules.—The table in section 201(a) of title 37,
United States Code, is amended by striking “and Marine Corps” and inserting “Marine Corps, and
Space Force” in the heading for the second column.
(d) Pay Of Senior Enlisted Members.—Section 210(c) of such title is amended—
(1) by redesignating paragraph (5) as paragraph (6); and
(2) by inserting after paragraph (4) the following new paragraph (5):
“(5) The Chief Master Sergeant of the Space Force.”.
(e) Allowances Other Than Travel And Transportation Allowances.—

65
(1) PERSONAL MONEY ALLOWANCE.—Section 414 of such title is amended—
(A) in subsection (a)(5), by inserting “Chief of Staff of the Space Force,” after
“Commandant of the Marines Corps,”; and
(B) in subsection (b), by inserting “the Chief Master Sergeant of the Space Force,”
after “the Sergeant Major of the Marine Corps,”.
(2) CLOTHING ALLOWANCE: ENLISTED MEMBERS.—Section 418(d) of such
title is amended—
(A) in paragraph (1), by inserting “Space Force,” after “Air Force,”; and
(B) in paragraph (4), by inserting “the Space Force,” after “the Air Force,”.
(f) Travel And Transportation Allowances: Parking Expenses.—Section 481i(b) of such title
is amended by striking “or Marine Corps” and inserting “Marine Corps, or Space Force”.
(g) Leave.—
(1) ADDITION OF SPACE FORCE.—Chapter 9 of such title is amended by inserting
“Space Force,” after “Marine Corps,” each place it appears in the following provisions:
(A) Subsections (b)(1) and (e)(1) of section 501.
(B) Section 502(a).
(C) Section 503(a).
(2) ADDITION OF REGULAR SPACE FORCE.—Section 501(b)(5)(C) of such title is
amended by striking “or Regular Marine Corps” and inserting “Regular Marine Corps, or
Regular Space Force”.

66
(h) Contract Surgeons.—Subsections (a), (c), and (d) of section 701 of such title are each
amended by inserting “Space Force,” after “Air Force,”.
(i) Forfeiture Of Pay.—Chapter 15 of such title is amended—
(1) in section 802, by striking “or Marine Corps” and inserting “Marine Corps, or Space
Force”; and
(2) in section 803, by striking “or the Air Force” and inserting “the Air Force, or the
Space Force”.
(j) Effect On Pay Of Extension Of Enlistment.—Section 906 of such title is amended by
inserting “Space Force,” after “Marine Corps,”.
(k) Administration Of Pay.—Chapter 19 of such title is amended—
(1) in section 1005, by striking “and of the Air Force” and inserting “the Air Force, and
the Space Force”; and
(2) in section 1007—
(A) in subsections (b), (d), (f), and (g), by striking “or the Air Force” and inserting
“, the Air Force, or the Space Force”; and
(B) in subsection (e), by striking “or Marine Corps” and inserting “Marine Corps,
or Space Force”.
SECTION 16. TITLE 38, UNITED STATES CODE.
(a) References To Military, Naval, Or Air Service Amended To Add Space Service.—Title
38, United States Code, is amended by striking “or air service” and inserting “air, or space
service” each place it appears in the following provisions:
(1) Paragraphs (2), (5), (12), (16), (17), (18), and (24) of section 101.

67
(2) Section 105.
(3) Section 106.
(4) Section 1101.
(5) Section 1103.
(6) Section 1110.
(7) Section 1112.
(8) Section 1113.
(9) Section 1131.
(10) Section 1132.
(11) Section 1133.
(12) Section 1137.
(13) Section 1141.
(14) Section 1153.
(15) Section 1154.
(16) Section 1301.
(17) Section 1302.
(18) Section 1310.
(19) Section 1521(j).

68
(20) Section 1541(h).
(21) Section 1703.
(22) Section 1710(a)(2)(B).
(23) Section 1712.
(24) Section 1712A.
(25) Section 1717.
(26) Section 1720A.
(27) Section 1720D.
(28) Section 1720E(a).
(29) Section 1720G.
(30) Section 1720I.
(31) Section 1781.
(32) Section 1783.
(33) Section 1922.
(34) Section 2002.
(35) Section 2101A.
(36) Section 2301.
(37) Section 2302.

69
(38) Section 2303.
(39) Section 2306.
(40) Section 2402(a)(1).
(41) Section 3018B.
(42) Section 3102.
(43) Section 3103.
(44) Section 3113.
(45) Section 3501.
(46) Section 3512.
(47) Section 3679.
(48) Section 3701.
(49) Section 3712.
(50) Section 3729.
(51) Section 3901.
(52) Section 5103A.
(53) Section 5110.
(54) Section 5111.
(55) Section 5113.

70
(56) Section 5303.
(57) Section 6104.
(58) Section 6105.
(59) Section 6301.
(60) Section 6303.
(61) Section 6304.
(62) Section 8301.
(b) Definitions.—
(1) ARMED FORCES.—Paragraph (10) of section 101 of such title is amended by
inserting “Space Force,” after “Air Force,”.
(2) SECRETARY CONCERNED.—Paragraph (25)(C) of such section is amended by
inserting “or the Space Force” before the semicolon.
(3) FORMER PRISONER OF WAR.—Paragraph (32) of such section is amended by
striking “naval or air service” and inserting “naval, air, or space service”.
(c) Placement Of Employees In Military Installations.—Section 701 of such title is
amended—
(1) by striking “and Air Force” and inserting “Air Force, and Space Force”; and
(2) by striking “or air service” and inserting “air, or space service”.
(d) Special Provisions Relating To Pension.—

71
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 1562(a) of such title is amended by inserting “Space
Force,” after “Air Force,” both places it appears.
(2) SUBCHAPTER HEADING.—The heading of subchapter IV of chapter 15 of such
title is amended by inserting “SPACE FORCE,” after “AIR FORCE,”, and the item relating
to such subchapter in the table of sections at the beginning of chapter 15 of such title is
amended by inserting “SPACE FORCE,” after “AIR FORCE,”.
(e) Premium Payments.—Section 1908 of such title is amended by inserting “Space Force”
after “Marine Corps,”.
(f) Secretary Concerned.—Section 3020(l)(3) of such title is amended by inserting “or the
Space Force” before the semicolon.
(g) Definitions.—Section 3301(2)(C) of such title is amended by inserting “or the Space
Force” after “Air Force”.
(h) Provision Of Credit Protection And Other Services.—Section 5724(c)(2) of such title is
amended by striking “or Marine Corps” and inserting “Marine Corps, or Space Force”.
SECTION 17. TITLE 41, UNITED STATES CODE.
Section 6309 of title 41, United States Code, is amended by inserting “Space Force,” after “Marine
Corps,”.
SECTION 18. TITLE 51, UNITED STATES CODE.
Section 20113(l) of title 51, United States Code, is amended by striking “and Marine Corps” and
inserting “, Marine Corps, and Space Force”.
SECTION 19. OTHER PROVISIONS OF LAW.

72
(a) Secretary Of Defense Authority.—The authority of the Secretary of Defense with respect
to the Air Force or members of the Air Force under any covered provision of law may be
exercised by the Secretary with respect to the Space Force or members of the Space Force.
(b) Secretary Of Air Force Authority.—The authority of the Secretary of the Air Force with
respect to the Air Force or members of the Air Force under any covered provision of law may be
exercised with respect to the Space Force or members of the Space Force.
(c) Benefits For Members.—A member of the Space Force shall be eligible for any benefit
under a covered provision of law that is available to a member of the Air Force under the same
terms and conditions as the provision of law applies to members of the Air Force.
(d) Covered Provision Of Law Defined.—In this section, the term “covered provision of law”
means a provision of law other than a provision of title 5, 10, 14, 18, 31, 37, 38, 41, or 51, United
States Code.
SECTION 20. APPROPRIATION
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 for the use of the
Space Force for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for operation and maintenance, in amounts
as follows:
For the Space Force, $72,436,000.
SECTION 21. SEVERABILITY.
The provisions of this Act are severable; should any provision of this Act be found
unconstitutional or unenforceable, or be otherwise stricken, the remainder of this Act shall remain in
full force and effect.
੦