160th Congress
1st Session
H.R.21
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
December 30th, 2022
Mr. Sullivan (for himself) introduced the following bill;
A BILL
To provide appropriations for the federal government between January 1st of 2023 and January
10th of 2023.
Be it enacted by the Senate and the House of Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress Assembled,
SEC. 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the “Shutdown Prevention Act of 2022”,
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress finds that—
(a) Without proper appropriations, the government risks a potentially catastrophic shutdown,
depriving America of the critical programs that are required to maintain the stability and
prosperity of our country, and that such a shutdown could cause our nation to grind to a
screeching halt;
(b) During the period of time in which the treasury department continues to compile the Executive
Branches’s budget proposal, it is the job of congress to ensure proper appropriations and
allocations are handled;
(c) This bill will allow us to temporarily avoid a shutdown while the Treasury Department arranges
and assembles the budget.
SEC. 3. APPROPRIATING MONEY
(a) IN GENERAL.— A total of $141,292,200,280. shall be appropriated.

160th Congress
1st Session
(b) TIMELINE. — The amount appropriated in this Act, out of any money in the Treasury not
otherwise appropriated, shall remain available from the date of the enactment of this Act or
January 1st, 2023, depending on whichever comes first, until January 10th, 2023. Any
appropriations made pursuant to this act after the January 10th, 2023 shall be considered null
and void, and any such appropriations shall be returned to the Treasury.
(c) METHOD OF APPROPRIATION. — Appropriations pursuant to this act shall be divvied out
to each agency and entity by a ratio of up to but no more than one fourth of such funds that
were appropriated to each agency and entity in the Funding Act of 2022.
(d) CUTOFF. — This Act shall only remain in effect until January 10th, 2023, or a new
appropriations bill is passed, whichever comes first.
Written by President Guy and Representative Daniel Sullivan, for use by the Congress of the United States of America.