H.R.19 160thCongress
H.R.19
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
December22nd, 2022
Mr.Stephnes(for himself,Mr. Jimmy)introduced thefollowing bill;
A BILL
To end Non-Disclosure Agreements which limit a victim’s ability to speak on
workplace sexual misconduct.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress assembled,
§1.SHORTTITLE
1. Short Title.— This Actmaybe citedasthe “StopNondisclosure ofWorkplace Sexual
MisconductAct”.
§2.DEFINITIONS
1. SEXUAL MISCONDUCT.— The term “sexual misconduct” means criminal or
disorderly conduct that is sexual in nature, including sexual harassment,
sexual assault, rape, and deliberate and malicious misgendering.
2. NDA.— The term “NDA” means a Non-Disclosure Agreement, a contract or a
clause in a contract which legally prevents a party of the contract from
disclosing or discussing conduct or experiences.
3. PREDISPUTE NDA.— The term “predispute NDA” refers to a
Non-Disclosure Agreement signed before any alleged conduct or dispute
occurs.
§ 3. END OF RECOGNITION OF SEXUAL MISCONDUCT NDAs IN
FEDERAL COURTS
1

H.R.19 160thCongress
1. IN GENERAL.— The application of NDAs related to issues of sexual
misconduct before misconduct occurs shall no longer be recognized in federal
courts.
a. No section of any predispute NDA which would restrict the ability
of an employee or customer of a business from disclosing sexual
misconduct committed upon them: on the property of the
business; by an employee of the business; or with the knowledge
of the business, from pursuing legal settlements or charges
against the perpetrator of the misconduct, or from pressing
charges against the business itself, or from speaking publicly
about their experience with the misconduct, shall be judicially
enforceable in any federal court of the United States.
b. No provision of this Act shall prevent an employer or business
from protecting the secrecy of trade secrets, proprietary
information, or sensitive information irrelevant to the dispute.
§ 4. ENACTMENT
1. The provisions of this Act shall go into effect immediately upon passage
into law, and shall apply only to disputes which arise after enactment.
2