165TH CONGRESS
2ND SESSION
S. 11
To provide for automatic continuing resolutions during a lapse of a
budget without a proper successor.
MR. HARRIS-CHAREST (for himself) introduced the following bill.
AN ACT
To provide for automatic continuing resolutions during a lapse of a budget without a proper
successor.
Be it enacted by the Senate and the House of Representatives of the United States of America
in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the “Supplementing Appropriations for Future Endeavors
affected by Timelessness Act of 2023”, or the “SAFE-T Act”.
SEC 2. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(a) “Budget” is a bill that provides for appropriations for the federal government,
and does not merely appropriate funds at the rates defined by previous
legislation..
(b) “Fiscal Period” is to be defined as any portion of a fiscal year.
(c) “Fiscal Year” is to be defined the same definition given in 31 USC §1102.

2
SEC 3. AUTOMATIC CONTINUING RESOLUTION.
Subchapter I of Title 31, United States Code, is amended by adding the following
new section after section 1310:
“SEC. 1311. CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS
“(a) If a budget covering a fiscal period lapses without a succeeding
budget or appropriate continuing resolution, such appropriations may
continue for a period of 28 days from the date in which the proceeding budget
lapsed. Such funds shall be appropriated at the following percentages of the
amount authorized in the proceeding budget—
“(1) 100 percent for a period of 72 hours;
“(2) 90 percent for a period of 96 hours upon the expiration of
the period outlined in paragraph (1);
“(3) 75 percent for a period lasting 168 hours upon the
expiration of the period outlined in paragraph (2);
“(4) 50 percent for a period lasting 168 hours upon the
expiration of the period outlined in paragraph (3), and;
“(5) 17 percent for a period lasting 168 hours upon the
expiration of the period outlined in paragraph (4).
Such percentage reductions shall not affect the statutory rates of pay as
defined by law, unless the 28 day period has expired, upon which no funds
shall be remitted for compensation.
“(b) Upon the conclusion of the period outlined in paragraph (a)(5), no
funds from the proceeding budget are authorized to be appropriated further
without a requisite continuing resolution or budget authorizing funds for
appropriation.
“(c) Should funds be appropriated under this section, no funds are
authorized for the compensation of any member of Congress, the President,
the Vice President, or members of Cabinet. Such funds shall be held by the
Treasury in a separate account at the full rate of compensation, and
disbursed upon the passage of a proper budget or continuing resolution.

3
SEC 4. PROHIBITION OF COMPENSATION TO CERTAIN
GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS UNDER SPECIFIC
CIRCUMSTANCES.
Title 2, United States Code, is amended by adding the following new paragraph after
paragraph (2) of section 4501:
“(3) Should an automatic continuing resolution be effective due to lack of a
signed law or joint resolution authorizing appropriations, the Treasury shall
withhold any funds sent to be disbursed in line with paragraph (1). All funds held
due to the provisions of section 3 of this act shall be remitted upon passage of a
proper budget or continuing resolution.
Title 3, United States Code, is amended by redesignating the existing text in section
102 as paragraph (a), and adding the following new paragraph after paragraph (a) of
section 102:
“(b) Should an automatic continuing resolution be effective due to lack of a
signed law or joint resolution authorizing appropriations, the Treasury shall
withhold any funds sent to be disbursed in line with paragraph (a).
SEC 5. SUPREMACY.
For the purposes of enacting this Act, any laws in conflict with this Act shall be
immediately rescinded and rendered null and void.
SEC 6. SEVERABILITY.
If any provision of this Act, or any amendment made by this Act, or the application
of such provision to any person, entity, government, or circumstance, is held to be
unconstitutional, the remainder of this Act, or any amendment made thereby, or the
application of such provision to all other persons, entities, governments, or
circumstances, shall not be affected thereby.
SEC 7. EFFECTIVE DATE.
This act shall come into force in thirty days from approval within the process
described by Article I, §7 of the Constitution of the United States.