IN THE CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES
DECEMBER 18th, 2020
Mr. ROMERIO (for himself, Mr. Koay, Mr. Graves) introduced the
following bill;
To create and properly fund a National Fund for Public Defence, to ensure that American
Citizens maintain the right to defend themselves in a Court of Law.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled;
Sec. 1. SHORT TITLE.
This act may be cited as the “The Public Defence Act of 2020”.
Sec. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress finds that—
(1) Eighty-two percent of Americans charged with a felony in State Courts rely on Public
Defenders for their defence.
(2) The average salary of a public defender ($53,000) does not provide the necessary funding
to pay debts from higher education, leading to very few individuals working as Public
Defenders.
(3) According to the Bureau of Justice Statistics, Public Defenders have an annual caseload
ranging from fifty to five hundred ninety cases.

(4) The United States must ensure that Public Defenders are paid enough to allow for more
people to practice law for the Courts to reduce caseload and increase inefficiency.
Sec. 3. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act—
(1) The term “The Secretary” refers to the Secretary of Justice (the Attorney General), in
their capacity as leader of the Department of Justice.
(2) The term “The Department” refers to the Department of Justice, unless otherwise
specified.
(3) The term “The Office” refers to the established Office in Section 4(a), and all individuals
working within it, unless otherwise specified.
(4) The term “Public Defender” and “Public Defender’s Offices” refer to counsel in the Trial
Court who is provided by the Court to the defendant, and is of no mandatory charge to
the defendant, barring funding through taxation.
(5) The term “Universally” means that any funding withdrawn by the several States, pursuant
to Section 4(b), and in accordance with regulations in Section 5, is applied equally to the
Offices of Public Defenders, without discrimination.
(6) The term “Fund” refers to the Public Defence Fund described in Section 4.
(7) The term “Share of Funding” refers to what percentage of the total amount appropriated
in the Fiscal Month, plus the private donations of the previous Fiscal Month therein, a
State may withdraw.
(8) The term “integrated properly” means any funding donated privately must be treated and
filed equally as donations from the Federal Government, and will be distributed fairly and
universally across the several States.
Sec. 4. ESTABLISHING A NATIONAL PUBLIC DEFENCE FUND
In general—
(a) The Secretary shall establish, within the Department, an Office of Public Defence, which
shall be composed of an Inspector General, appointed by the Secretary, and up to ten
individuals working under the authority of the Inspector General, appointed by them,
with the consent of the Secretary.

(b) The Office shall form a National Fund, from which any State may withdraw funding, as
described in Section 5, for the purposes of increasing the pay and resources of the Offices
of Public Defenders within their jurisdiction.
(c) The Office of the Inspector General shall ensure that—
(i) Any funding withdrawn by a State is properly used for the purposes of;
(1) Universally increasing the pay of Public Defenders within their
jurisdiction, and/or;
(2) Universally providing further resources to the Offices of Public Defenders
within their jurisdiction, and/or;
(3) Otherwise using the funding to improve the working conditions of Public
Defenders, which includes, but is not limited to;
a) Improving access to discovery files, paperwork, evidence, or any
other information or documentation relevant to ongoing, future, or
past cases within the jurisdiction of the specific Public Defender’s
Office to which funding is being granted.
b) Providing resources to allow for better defence, such as funding
requests by Public Defenders to receive evidence, conduct
forensics, or gather any relevant evidence, at the request of Public
Defenders.
(ii) Ensuring that all provisions in the Sections 5 and 6 of this Act are properly
enforced.
Sec. 5. STATE REGULATIONS.
In general—
(a) A State may withdraw funding from the Fund with the consent of its Legislature and
Governor. Any State that withdraws funding must abide by the regulations in Section 4,
and the following regulations in this Section.
(b) The following States may not withdraw more than the following:
State Percent of Total
California 11.91%

Texas 8.74%
Florida 6.47%
New York 5.86%
Illinois 3.86%
Pennsylvania 3.82%
Ohio 3.52%
Georgia 3.20%
North Carolina 3.16%
Michigan 3.01%
New Jersey 2.68%
Virginia 2.57%
Washington 2.29%
Arizona 2.19%
Massachusetts 2.09%
Tennessee 2.06%
Indiana 2.03%
Missouri 1.85%
Maryland 1.82%
Wisconsin 1.75%
Colorado 1.74%
Minnesota 1.70%
South Carolina 1.55%
Alabama 1.48%
Louisiana 1.40%
Kentucky 1.35%
Oregon 1.27%
Oklahoma 1.19%
Connecticut 1.07%
Utah 0.97%

Iowa 0.95%
Nevada 0.93%
Arkansas 0.91%
Mississippi 0.90%
Kansas 0.88%
New Mexico 0.63%
Nebraska 0.58%
West Virginia 0.54%
Idaho 0.54%
Hawaii 0.43%
New Hampshire 0.41%
Maine 0.41%
Montana 0.32%
Rhode Island 0.32%
Delaware 0.29%
South Dakota 0.27%
North Dakota 0.23%
Alaska 0.22%
The District of Columbia 0.21%
Vermont 0.19%
Wyoming 0.17%
(c) The District of Columbia, with the consent of its Governing body and Mayor may
withdraw funding from the Fund, as described by Subsection (b) of this Section, and it
must abide by the same regulations imposed upon States withdrawing funds.
(d) No State will withdraw funds and use it in a manner that is not directly productive to
achieving the provisions in Section 4(c) of this Act.
(e) States may withdraw their share of funding every Fiscal Month, and may legislate as such
that funding is withdrawn in a consecutive manner, in accordance with the Inspector
General and the Office. Any such consecutive withdrawal will cause at least a 0.1%
decrease in shares described in Subsection (b) of this Section every Fiscal Month, until

such termination of consecutive withdrawal. To restore the share funding described in
Subsection (b) of this Act, the termination must last at least three Fiscal Months.
Sec. 6. PRIVATE DONATIONS
In general—
(a) Any private individual or entity may donate to the Fund. No individual or entity shall
donate more than one million dollars in any given Fiscal Month.
(b) The Inspector General shall ensure that the funding is donated in good faith, and is
integrated properly into the fund.
Sec. 7. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
There is authorized to be appropriated—
(a) $75,000,000 for every Fiscal Month starting Fiscal Month January 2022, for the purposes
of providing the necessary Federal funding for the Fund described in Section 4 of this
Act.
(b) $1,000,000 for every Fiscal Month starting Fiscal Month June 2021, for the purpose of
creating the Office described in Section 4 of this Act, and for the purposes of funding the
Inspector General and their efforts, as described in Sections 4, 5, and 6 of this Act.
Sec. 8. ENACTMENT.
(a) The provisions in Section 7 of this Act shall go into effect as they are described.
(b) The provisions in Sections 4, 5, and 6 of this Act shall go into effect on January 1st,
2022.