IN THE CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES
June 9, 2020
Mr. Melvin (for himself, Mr. Archer, Mr. Mitchell, Mr. Pluribus
Ms. Berry) introduced the following bill;
The Minor Protection Act of 2020
To protect underage minors and victims from prosecution, while increasing penalties for
predators who solicit child pornography or sex from minors
Beit enactedbytheHouse ofRepresentatives andSenateof theUnited StatesofAmericain
CongressAssembled,

SECTION 1.SHORTTITLE.
This billmaybe citedas“The MinorProtectionActof 2020”
SECTION 2.DEFINITIONS
In this act:
1. “Minor” - Anyperson underthe ageof18
2. “Child Pornography”- Sexuallyexplicit imagesorvideo’s thatshow aminor
3. “Pornography inquestion”- Pornographythat isunder questionifit hasprotection
status
4. “Bribery”- Tryingto getsomething byofferingmoney,gifts,or services
SECTION 3.PROTECTIONS
ForMinors
Minors who send pornographic images of themselves shall not be charged in federal court for
“producing/distributing child pornography” if they are the only minor posing sexually in the
pornographic material.
ForPossessors
Any person shall not be convicted inFederalCourts ofpossessing childpornography oranynew
lawscreated in“SECTION 4”,if:
1) The minor in thepornographic material,during thetimeinthe pornographic materialwas
produced, was less than 731 days younger than the person possessing the pornography
whentheyhavereceived it.
2) They contained the pornography consensually, withoutsoliciting itthrough bribery,or by
threats.
3) If only theminor ispresent inthe pornography.
The pornography in question has to reach all three of these clauses in order for the processorto
not beprosecuted for it.

Ifin clause1
“The minor in the pornographic material, during the time in the pornographic material was
produced,was lessthan731 daysyounger than thepersonpossessing thepornographywhenthey
havereceived it.”
The possessor before wasn’t 731 days older than the person in the pornography in question but
has become 731 days older, they will be given a 100 day period to stop processing the
pornography. After this 100 day period, they are no longer immune to prosecution for carrying
suchpornography.
SECTION 4.LAWS
Soliciting nudesfor aminor
Any personwhoisfound askinga minor for pornographicmaterial ofthe minor,under probable
cause of know that the person is a minor, without threats or bribery, or isn’t under protection
found in “SECTION 3.” shall be subject to the charge of “Soliciting nudes from a minor.” If
found guilty, the person in question issubject tosixmonths of probationto5yearsin prisonand
may be required to register as a sex offender. If the guilty person is a minor, they will only be
subject to 3 months of probation to 1yearof probationandwon’t berequired toregisteras asex
offender.
Soliciting nudesfrom aminor, under threatorbribery
Any person who is found asking a minor for pornographic material of the minor, under the
probable cause of knowing that the person is a minor, with threats or bribery,shallbesubject to
the charge of “Soliciting nudesfroma minor,under threator bribery.”If a personisfound guilty,
they will be required to be sentenced 6 months in prison to 10 years in prison and will be
required to register as a sex offender. If this person is a minor, they are subject to 9 months
probation to 3 years probation or sentenced to 1 month to 6 months in a juvenile correction
facility.