154th Congress
1st Session
IN THE CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES
June 15th, 2022
Ms. MONTEZUMA of Olympia introduced the following
legislation;
A BILL
To ensure that water-related Federal Construction Projects on or through Native American
Reservations are handled responsibly.
Be it enacted by the Senate and the House of Representatives of the United States of America
in Congress Assembled,
Sec. 1. Short Title
1. This legislation may be cited as "The Native American Waters Act of 2022”
Sec. 2. Definitions
1. The term “leadership of a Native American Reservation” and the term “Leadership of
a federally recognized Native American Tribe” as used in section 3 refers to the tribal
leader that represents a federally recognized Native American tribe to the Bureau of
Indian Affairs.
2. The term “reservation” as used in sections 3 and 4 refers to a Native American
Reservation.
3. The term “federally-funded construction” as used in sections 3 and 4 refers to any
construction project that receives resources from the government in the form of
monetary resources, labor, equipment, a contract, or other form.

4. The term “on or through their reservation” as used in sections 3 means any
construction project that occurs on the reservation of a Federally Recognized Tribe ,
or goes through the reservation of a Federally Recognized Tribe.
5. The term “existing federally-funded construction”refers to federally-funded
construction which is completed in its entirety.
Sec.3. Regulating Construction on Native American Reservations
1. The leadership of a reservation must consent to any federally-funded construction
project that is on their reservation or that goes through their reservation that would
affect their water supply in any way before construction on such a project
commences.
a. The consent must be provided by way of written word.
2. Whether or not a federally-funded construction project would affect a reservation’s
water supply in any way shall be determined by an Environmental Protection Agency
approved environmental survey on the impacts of the aforementioned construction
project before the construction project in question is approved.
3. If it cannot be determined whether or not the leadership of a federally recognized
Native American tribe consents to a federally-funded construction project on or
through their reservation that affects their water supply in any way, a referendum shall
be held for the registered and eligible voters of the tribe to vote in.
a. Only registered members of the Native American tribe who are also registered
voters in their state shall be eligible to vote.
b. If a majority of the registered and eligible voters of the tribe approve of the
construction project in the referendum, the project may commence.
c. If a majority of the registered and eligible voters of the tribe disapprove of the
construction project in the referendum, the project may not commence.
d. If the referendum results in a tie, the project may not commence.
4. Nothing in this section shall be interpreted or construed to mean that the federal
government needs consent from the leadership of a federally recognized tribe in order
to maintain or repair a federally-funded construction project that goes on or through
their reservation.
5. This section only applies to new federally-funded construction projects that would
affect a reservation’s water supply in any way, or the significant alteration of existing
federally-funded construction that affects, or would affect if the alteration is
completed, a reservation’s water supply.
a. Significant alteration of existing federally-funded construction includes, but is
not limited to, the following:
i. Changing the physical location;
ii. Expanding or contracting the construction by more than an all-time
total of 5 feet; and
iii. Altercations which would put additional strain on the communities
water supply. Whether or not an altercation would put additional strain

on a communities water supply shall be found out before the
altercation is started via the method stated in subsection 2.
6. In the case of a federally-funded construction project that goes through multiple
reservations or an alteration of existing federally-funded construction that goes
through multiple reservations, consent is only needed from the reservations that would
have their water supplies affected by either a federally funded construction project or
the alteration of existing federally funded construction
Sec.4. Severability
1. Should any one or more provision, section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, word,
application of this Act be deemed invalid or unconstitutional for any reason in a court
with relevant jurisdiction, the rest of the Act, and the application of the remaining
provisions, shall not be affected.
Sec.5. Enactment
The provisions of this Act shall go into effect immediately upon passage
Written by (sen.montezuma) for Congress’ use.