CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
February 26th, 2020
Sponsored by:
Congressman Wonder(D-NJ)
Co-Sponsored by: Party Secretary Pluribus, Congressman Bo(D-FL), Congressman
James(D-GA), Admin Don, Sol. General Thunderwood(D-TN), Chief of Staff
McKenna(D-CA), Vice President Hull, Congressman Itachi(D-PA), Sec of Interior
Waffles(D-RI)
The A.C.R.E.S. Act of 2020
A Bill
Section 1.
This Bill known as H.R.1973 would also be referred to as the Autism
Collaboration, Research, Education, and Support (A.C.R.E.S) Act .
Section 2
This bill authorizes and revises several programs and activities relating to autism
spectrum disorder (ASD). Specifically, the bill reauthorizes provisions relating to
(1) expanded ASD research at the National Institutes of Health; (2) the collection
of state-level ASD data by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; (3)
ASD education, early detection, and intervention activities supported by the Health
Resources and Services Administration; and (4) the Interagency Autism
Coordinating Committee.

The bill also generally revises the scope of such programs and activities to (1)
encompass ASD individuals of all ages, rather than only youth; (2) focus funding
on programs in areas with a shortage of personal health services; and (3) reduce
health-outcome disparities across diverse populations.
Section 3
There are authorized to be appropriated $296,000,000 for all of the fiscal years
2020 to 2024 to be provided to programs and activities relating to ASD
Section 4
Section
399BB of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 280i-1) is amended--
In this section individuals with autism spectrum disorder or other
developmental disabilities'' and inserting individuals with autism spectrum
disorder and other developmental disabilities''; by striking ``children with autism
spectrum disorder'' and all that follows through individuals with autism spectrum
disorder and other developmental disabilities across their lifespan in subsection.
They will be apart of group programs that are to help them in life and some of the
funding up in section 3 will go to those programs

Section 5
Developmental Disabilities Surveillance and Research Program.--
Section 399AA of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 280i) is
amended--
In this section, by striking relevant State and local public health officials, private
sector developmental disability researchers, and advocates for individuals with
developmental disabilities and inserting `State, local, and Tribal public health
officials, private sector development disability researchers, advocates for
individuals with autism spectrum disorder, and advocates for individuals with other
developmental disabilities the other half of the funding will go to research to help
find cures for ASD