178th
CONGRESS
S.4
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
JUNE 16, 2024
Introduced by Senate Majority Leader James Sun, for himself
A BILL
To combat toxic indoor mold, and for other purposes.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. DEFINITIONS.
(1) The term ‘‘indoor residential mold’’ means any form of multicellular fungi
in indoor environments.
(2) RESIDENTIALMOLDINSPECTION.—The term ‘‘residential mold inspection’’
means an inspection, by a certified or licensed mold inspector or other indoor
environmental professional, including through the Real Estate Assessment
Center, of real property that is designed to discover—
(A) indoor mold growth in residential properties;
(B) conditions that facilitate indoor residential mold growth; or
(C) indicia of conditions that are likely to facilitate indoor residential
mold growth.
(3) TOXIGENICMOLD.—The term ‘‘toxigenic mold’’ means any indoor mold
growth that may be capable of producing a toxin or toxic compound that can
cause illnesses, or other major adverse health impacts, as jointly determined
by the individuals listed in Section 2(a)(1).

SEC. 2. INTERAGENCY RESEARCH ON HEALTH IMPACTS OF INDOOR
RESIDENTIAL MOLD.
(a) RESEARCH.—
(1) INGENERAL.—As soon as practicable after the date of enactment of this
Act, The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, in conjunction with
the Director of the Centers forDisease Control and Prevention, the
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, the Secretary of
Health and Human Services, shall jointly conduct a comprehensive study of
the health effects of indoor residential mold growth.
(2) CONTENTS.—The study conducted under paragraph (1) shall ascertain,
among other things—
(A) detailed information about harmful or toxigenic mold, a list of said
harmful and toxigenic molds, as well as any toxin or toxic compound
such mold can produce;
(B) the most accurate research-based methods of detecting harmful or
toxigenic mold;
(C) potential dangers of prolonged or chronic exposure to indoor
residential mold growth;
(D) the estimated current public health burden of new or exacerbated
physical illness resulting from exposure to indoor residential mold,
including its disproportionate impact on vulnerable communities,
including children and seniors;
(3) AVAILABILITY.—Not later than the expiration of the 3-year period
beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, the results of the study
conducted under paragraph (1) shall be submitted to Congress and the
President and made available to the general public.
SEC. 4. HEALTH, SAFETY, AND HABITABILITY STANDARDS AND MODEL
STANDARDS.
(a) MODELSTANDARDSFORPREVENTING, DETECTING, ANDREMEDIATINGINDOOR
RESIDENTIALMOLDGROWTH.—Based on the results of the interagency health
study conducted under section 3, the Administrator of the Environmental
Protection Agency, in conjunction with the Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development, the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,
the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Occupational Safety and Health at the

Occupational Safety and Health Administration, shall jointly issue model
health, safety, and habitability standards for preventing, detecting, and
remediating indoor residential mold growth.
(b) DEADLINE.—
(1) PUBLICATION.—Not later than 3 years after the results of the study
conducted under section 3 are submitted to Congress in accordance
with such section, the officers identified in subsection (a) shall issue,
and make available to the public, final standards and model standards
under this section.
(c) PHYSICALCONDITIONINSPECTIONS.—Not later than 2 years after the
publication of standards and model standards under subsection (a), the
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall revise the requirements
for conducting uniform physical condition inspections, to incorporate the
model standards issued under this section, as applicable.
SEC. 5. HOUSING STOCK QUALITY REQUIREMENTS.
Section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f) is amended by
inserting after subsection (v) the following new subsection:
‘‘(w) STANDARDSFORPHYSICALCONDITIONANDMANAGEMENTOFHOUSINGRECEIVING
ASSISTANCEPAYMENTS.—
(1) STANDARDS.—Any entity receiving housing assistance payments under this
section shall maintain decent, safe, and sanitary conditions, as determined by
the Secretary, and comply with any standards under applicable State or local
laws, rules, ordinances, or regulations relating to the physical condition of
any insured or non-insured property covered under a housing assistance
payment contract for project-based assistance.
(2) REMEDIATION.—The Secretary shall take action under paragraph (3) when
a multifamily housing project with a housing assistance payment contract
under this section or a contract with the Department of Housing and Urban
Development for similar project-based assistance—
(A) receives a failing score on a physical inspection by the Department;
or

(B) fails to certify in writing to the Secretary within 3 days that all
severe health or safety deficiencies identified at the project by the
inspector have been corrected.
(3) NOTICEOFDEFAULT.—
(A) ISSUANCE.—Meeting the parameters in Subsection (w)(2) of this
section, the Secretary shall provide the owner with a notice of default
that shall include a specified timetable, determined by the Secretary,
for correcting all deficiencies.
(B) COPIES.—The Secretary shall provide a copy of the notice of default
to the tenants of the property, the local government for the jurisdiction
within which the property is located, any mortgagees, and any contract
administrator.
(C) APPEAL; WITHDRAWAL.—If the owner appeals the notice of default
and the appeal results in a passing Uniform Physical Condition
Standards score for the property, the Secretary may withdraw the
notice of default. ‘
(4) ENFORCEMENT.—If the owner fails to fully correct all deficiencies identified
in the notice of default by the end of the time period for correcting such
deficiencies specified in the notice, the Secretary shall, in consultation with
the tenant organization, one or more of the following actions, and provide
additional notice of those actions to the owner and the parties specified in
paragraph (3)(B) to improve property conditions and preserve housing
assistance:
(A) Take any regulatory or contractual remedies available as deemed
necessary and appropriate by the Secretary to improve property
conditions, protect tenants from displacement and harm, and preserve
the housing assistance.
(B) Require immediate replacement of the project management with a
management agent approved by the Secretary.
(C) Pursue exclusionary sanctions, including suspensions or
debarments from Federal programs.

(D) Relocate tenants while providing the same level of housing
assistance.
(E) Seek judicial appointment of a receiver to manage the property and
cure all project deficiencies or seek a judicial order of specific
performance requiring the owner to cure all project deficiencies.
(F) Work with the owner, lender, tenants, or other related party to
stabilize the property in an attempt to preserve the property through
compliance, transfer of ownership, or an infusion of capital or other
resources.
(5) PROHIBITIONONRENTINCREASES.—Effective upon the expiration of the
12-month period beginning on the date of the enactment of this subsection,
the Secretary shall prohibit any increases in rents for dwelling units in the
property until the owner fully corrects all deficiencies identified in the
notice.”