Proposed By: Congressman Jethro I. Thunderwood (D-TN)
Co-Sponsor: Congressman Fontaine (I-CO), Commiegresswoman soufong (D-OR),
Chief of Staff McKenna (D-CA), Secretary of Security Adiv (D-NJ),
Congressman Underwood (D-SC), Congressman Itachi (D-PA),
Congressman Jacob Helton (D-KY)
Universal Background Check
on Firearm Purchases Act
Be it enacted by the House of Representative;
A bill to ensure firearms are properly managed with safety in mind with the oversight of the
Department of Security, and the properly enforce the rights in the 2nd Amendment.
Section 1: Establishment of an independent agency tasked with Background Check.
Section 1a: This agency shall be called Federal Firearm and Records Administration.
Section 1b: The officer-in-charge for the FFRA is the Director of Firearm and Records
Administration which shall be nominate by the President, with the concurring or non-concurring
recommendation from the Secretary of Security.
Section 1c: The FFRA will make available to ammunition stores owner registered in the
system, the National Background Check Utilities to facilitate in background check at registered
ammunition stores.
Section 1d: The FFRA will also have nationwide jurisdiction to collaborate with local or state
police to identify unregistered ammunition stores and take the necessary actions by existing law.
Section 2: National Background Check Utilities
Section 2a: The National Background Check Utilities shall be, but not limited to, software on
a computer, a hotline available to store owners, or a handbook updated frequently.
Section 2b: The National Background Check Utilities can ONLY be edited at the discretion
of high level FFRA employees tasked specifically with managing the NBCU or police officers of rank
Captain or upper in local or state police department ONLY for citizens in their jurisdiction.
Section 2c: The National Background Check Utilities will also rate US Citizens based on
their activities that may deem risky depends on individual’s travel records, history with firearms,
ammunition and criminal records. The rating will be translated into a score, from the scale of 1-100,
with 100 being the least risky and 1 being the most risky.
Section 3: Enforcement of the bill
Section 3a: Before firearm purchases at a registered ammunition stores can be completed, the
customer must hand over their ID, limited to Driving Licenses, Passport, or Passport Card as issued
by the Department of State.
Section 3b: The ammunition store must run the customer name in the NBCU to check their
records, if their score is less than 30, the store is not allowed to sales of firearm to the customer, and
shall contact local or state police department that a high risk subject is in the jurisdiction looking for

ammunition. Ammunition Store failed to follow the directions as in the NBCU will lose their store
license and face up to 5 years in jail and up to $100,000 fine.
Section 3c: For individual with score from 31-100, sales of ammunition is up to the store’s
discretion or the state or local regulations (if exists).
Section 3d: To ensure the rights to bear arms, the store must be able to provide a transcript, if
requested by the FRAA, of every purchase of ammunition to avoid discrimination in gun purchases.
Store employees or owners found to be discriminating can face up to 3 years in jail and up to $70,000
fine.
Section 3e: Federal, state, and local enforcement officers are exempted from the Universal
Background Check, given that the weapons are to be used in their department’s discretion.
Section 4: This bill shall be enforced by an independent agency as detailed above with oversight from
the Department of Security.
Section 5: This bill shall take effect on January 1, 2021.
_________________________