Be it enactedbytheSenate andHouseof Representativesof theUnited StatesofAmerica in
Congress assembled,
A Bill
ToreauthorizeandenhancetheprovisionsoftheViolenceAgainstWomenActof1994,
andforotherpurposes.
Ms.Sinclair,for herself
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act shall be referred to as the “Violence Against Women Act
Reauthorization.”
SECTION 2. FINDINGS
Whereas, the Violence Against Women Act enacted in 1994 by President Bill
Clinton, provides lifesaving services for women and victims of sexual
harassment, sexual violence, and domestic violence;
Whereas, the Act implements and supports programs that address and
respond to these problems, improving federal, state, local, and tribal
responses to cases of sexual haras. sment, sexual violence, and domestic
violence;
Whereas, the lack of funding due to the failure to reauthorize the Act hurt
those that the Act sought to improve the lives of;
Whereas, over 1 in 3 women have experienced some form of sexual
harassment or sexual violence, and over 1 in 5 women have survived
completed or attempted rape;
(1)

Whereas, such instances of violence and harassment have a serious and
detrimental effect on the health of women;
Whereas, this impacts the ability of women to maintain emotional and mental
health, their jobs, and long-term financial security, impacting the broader
economic conditions of the United States;
Whereas, domestic violence is a pressing problem in the United States, with
over 1 in 4 women and 1 in 9 men in the United States having suffered
from domestic violence, which includes sexual or physical violence as well
as stalking on behalf of an intimate partner;
Whereas, lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and other queer or
nonconforming individuals face significantly higher rates of sexual
harassment, sexual violence, and domestic violence compared to their
gender-conforming or heterosexual counterparts;
Whereas, as a result, members of said communities therefore have seen vastly
higher rates of depression, suicide, and other conditions, worsening
outcomes later in life;
Whereas, American Indian and Alaska Native individuals are far more likely
to be victims of sexual violence, domestic violence, or sexual harassment,
with rates of such crimes as high as 2.5 times more prevalent compared to
other individuals;
Whereas, immigrants and visa applicants that are victims of sexual violence,
domestic violence, or sexual harassment have historically been ignored
via a lack of consideration towards those individuals for visa programs;
Whereas, this Act ensures that the funds appropriated by the Act are
re-appropriated as necessary and extends the provisions of the Act;
Whereas, this Act implements a number of new, necessary programs that
address culturally specific needs, new avenues to justice, issues of tribal
jurisdiction over sexual and domestic crimes, the expansion of rape
prevention programs, sexual violence loopholes, sexual violence among
immigrants and visa applicants, and economic security;
Whereas, the cost of domestic violence and other sexual crimes in the United
States is estimated to be over $8,300,000,000;
(2)

Whereas, ensuring protections against through the implementation of
programs that prevent domestic violence and other sexual crimes in the
United States, as the Act previously did, will save American lives and
save money in the process by providing economic security;
Whereas, it is high time to reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act of
1994 and its subsequent additions.
SECTION 3. DEFINITIONS.
For the purposes of this Act and the provisions affected by this Act, the
following terms shall have their respective meanings:
(1) “Secretary of Commerce and Labor” and all terms and definitions
implying a reference to said terms, shall refer to the Secretary of the
Economic Affairs in the case that the provisions affected by this Act
conflict with modifications in departmental administration enacted on
or before April 23rd, 2023. .
(2) “Secretary of Health and Welfare” and “Secretary of Interior”all terms
and definitions implying a reference to said terms , shall refer to the
Secretary of Interior in the case that the provisions affected by this
Act conflict with modifications in departmental administration
enacted on or before April 23rd, 2023.
(3) “Secretary of Defense”, and all terms and definitions implying a
reference to said those terms, shall refer to the Secretary of Defense
in the case that the provisions affected by this Act conflict with
modifications in departmental administration enacted on and before
the date of April 23rd , 2023
(4) “Attorney General” shall refer to the Attorney General of the United
States.
SECTION 4. REAUTHORIZATION OF FUNDING.
All sums appropriated from the Treasury and provisions enacted by Congress
for the purposes of the enactment and enforcement of the Violence
Against Women Act (34 USC Subtitle I, Chapter 121, Subchapter III)
shall be considered re-appropriated and enacted for no more than 5 years
upon enactment of this Act.
SECTION 5. ADJUSTMENT OF FUNDING.
(3)

All sums reauthorized to be appropriated from the Treasury by Congress in
this Act shall be adjusted as necessary for inflation according to the date
said appropriated sums were enacted by Congress and estimates from the
Secretary of the Treasury.
SECTION 6. PRIMARY SOURCES OF ADDITIONAL FUNDING.
All sums appropriated under the provisions of this Act by Congress shall be
appropriated from the budget of the Office of Violence Against Women
under the Department of Justice, listed as budget item “Violence Against
Women Prevention and Prosecution Programs”, unless otherwise specified
by the provisions of this Act.
SECTION 7. CULTURALLY SPECIFIC SERVICES.
§12511, subsection (c), clause (4), subclause (a) of the Violence Against
Women Act of 1994 shall be amended to read as follows —
(a) The Attorney General shall not use more than 5 percent of funds
appropriated under this subsection in any year for administration,
monitoring, and evaluation of grants made available under this
subsection.
§12511, subsection (c), clause (4) of the Violence Against Women Act of 1994
shall be amended to append a subclause following subclause (a) to read as
follows —
(b) A minimum of $50,000,000 shall be appropriated for the programs
outlined by this clause in addition to the percent of funds appropriated
in the previous subclause.
SECTION 8. REFORMING AVENUES TO JUSTICE.
$50,000,000 shall be awarded in grants by the Attorney General to promote,
equip, and enable programs that focus on providing and reforming
avenues to justice that prioritize victim autonomy, agency, and safety at
state, local, and tribal levels of government.
SECTION 9. TRIBAL JURISDICTION.
The Indian Civil Rights Act of 1968 (25 U.S.C. §1304) shall be amended so
that each reference or implication of “domestic violence” shall be
interpreted to include crimes of domestic violence, dating violence,
(4)

obstruction of justice, sexual violence, sex trafficking, stalking, and
assault of a law enforcement or corrections officer. Jurisdiction over these
crimes shall not be withheld from a tribal government when an offense is
committed within the jurisdiction of said tribal government.
SECTION 10. RAPE PREVENTION AND EDUCATION PROGRAM.
Section 393A of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. §280b–1b) shall be
amended in the following manner —
(1) In subsection (a), append the following after clause (6) and renumber
subsequent clauses accordingly —
“(7) digital services;”
(2) In subsection (a), amend clause (7), renumbered to clause (8) in
accordance with the Section 8, subsection 1 of this Act, to read as
follows —
“other efforts to increase awareness of the facts about, or to
help prevent, sexual assault, sexual violence, sexual
assault, and sexual harassment, including efforts to
increase awareness in underserved communities and
awareness among individuals with disabilities (as defined in
section 12102 of this title).”
(3) In subsection (c), clause (1) (“In general”), amend the value of the
appropriations designated to read $150,000,000.
(4) In subsection (c), clause (2) (“National sexual violence resource center
allotment”), amend the value of the appropriations designated to read
$3,000,000.
(5) In subsection (c), clause (3) (“Baseline funding for States, the District
of Columbia, and Puerto Rico”), append the following at the conclusion
of the clause —
“No less than 80 percent of the funds appropriated under this
subsection shall be granted for each fiscal year.”
(6) Append the following subsection —
“(e) Report. No later than one year and one month following
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Welfare in
coordination with the Centers for Disease Control shall present
(5)

to the House Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Entitlements, the House Committee on Science, Energy, the
Environment, and Commerce, and the Senate Committee on
Health, Science, and the Environment a report detailing the
administration, authorization, and distribution of the grants
authorized by this section, as well as the impact and projected
impact of said grants.”
(7) Append the following subsection —
“(f) Advertisement of programs. The Secretary of Welfare
shall implement and administer an advertising program
concurrent with the length of appropriations authorized by this
section in order to promote and advertise the grants authorized
under this section.
(1) $5,000,000 shall be appropriated for the purposes of
administering and implementing the advertising
programs authorized under this subsection.”
SECTION 11. CLOSING THE CONSENT LOOPHOLE.
18 U.S.C. §2243 shall be amended in the following manner —
(1) Amend the section title to read “Sexual abuse of a minor or ward or
by any person acting under the color of the law.”
(2) Append the following subsection (c), titled “Of individuals acting
under the color of the law” between subsections (b) and (d), and
renumber subsequent subsections accordingly —
“(c) OF INDIVIDUALS ACTING UNDER THE COLOR OF
THE LAW — Whoever, acting under the color of law, knowingly
engages in a sexual act with an individual who is under arrest,
detention, or otherwise in the custody of a federal law
enforcement officer, shall be fined under this title, imprisoned
for no more than 15 years, or both.
(1) “Sexual act” shall refer to the definition given by section
2246 of this title.
(6)

(2) In a prosecution under this subsection, it shall not be
valid to present a defense against prosecution alleging
that the other person consented to the sexual act.
The Attorney General is authorized to make grants from the funds
appropriated by Section 4 of this Act to states that have enacted policies
that —
(1) Make it a criminal offense for any person acting under the color of the
law to commit an act of sexual assault with an individual in detention
or under arrest;
(2) Prohibit defensive arguments alleging consent between the two
individuals involved in the sexual act as described;
(3) Generally concur and are similar in form to Section 9 of this Act.
No later than one year and one month following the enactment of this Act,
the Attorney General shall present to the House Committee on Social
Concerns and the Judiciary and the Senate Committee on the Judiciary,
Local Government, and Oversight a report detailing the enforcement of
the provisions appended by Section 9 of this Act and the grants
authorized by said section.
SECTION 12. ECONOMIC SECURITY FOR VICTIMS.
Section 41501 of the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994
(34 U.S.C. §12501) shall be amended in the following manner —
(1) Amend subsection (a) to read as follows —
“(a) AUTHORITY
The Attorney General, acting through the Director of the Office
on Violence Against Women, may award a grant to an eligible
nonprofit nongovernmental entity or tribal organization, in
order to provide for the establishment and operation of a
national resource center on workplace responses to assist
victims of domestic and sexual violence and sexual
harassment. The resource center shall provide information
and assistance to employers,labor organizations, and victim
service providers to aid in their efforts to develop and
implement responses to such violence.”
(7)

(2) Amend subsection (b), clause (3) to read as follows —
“(3) a plan for developing materials and training for materials for
employers that address the needs of employees in cases of domestic
violence, dating violence, sexual assault, sexual harassment, and
stalking impacting the workplace, including the needs of underserved
communities.”
(3) Amend subsection (c), clause (1), subclause (A) to read as follows —
“(A) providing training to promote a better understanding of
workplace assistance to victims of sexual harassment or
domestic or sexual violence;”
(4) In subsection (e) (“Authorization of appropriations”), amend the value
of the appropriations designated to read $10,000,000.
For the purposes of the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and the
benefits and credits granted thereof, no person shall be denied
compensation under federal or state law on the basis of the individual
being voluntarily separated from work due to a documented occurance(s)
of sexual or other harassment, or domestic violence, sexual assault, or
stalking.
SECTION 13. PROTECTIONS FOR IMMIGRANTS.
8 U.S.C. §1184 (“Admission of nonimmigrants”) shall be amended in the
following manner —
(1) Amend subsection (d) (“Issuance of visa to fiancée or fiancé of citizen”),
clause (2), subclause (C), by striking (ii) and the provisions under (ii),
replacing it with the following provisions —
“(ii) A petitioner described in this clause is a petitioner who has
been battered or subjected to extreme cruelty, or who is a
victim of domestic or sexual violence or sexual harassment.”
The Secretary of Defense shall begin to prioritize the issuance of U-visas
under the United States Code to victims of domestic or sexual violence or
sexual harassment in accordance with the previous paragraph of this
section.
(8)

No later than one year and one month following the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Defense shall present to the House Committee on Social
Concerns and the Judiciary and the Senate Committee on the Judiciary,
Local Government, and Oversight a report detailing progress in
enforcement of the provisions amended by Section 11 of this Act,
specifically the change in the amount of U-visas granted via the
expansion of eligibility for said visas.
SECTION 14. STUDYING IMPACT OF REAUTHORIZATION.
No later than one year and one month following the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Welfare in coordination with the Congressional Research
Service shall present to the House Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Entitlements, the House Committee on Science, Energy, the
Environment, and Commerce, and the Senate Committee on Health,
Science, and the Environment a report detailing the impact on women
and victims of sexual violence, domestic violence, and sexual harassment
of the gap in funding due to the lack of reauthorization of the Violence
Against Women Act of 1994.
SECTION 15. PLAIN ENGLISH.
The preamble, the section containing “Whereas” clauses, demonstrates the
general sense of Congress and lays out reasoning and context surrounding
the proposal and enactment of this Act.
Section 1 provides the title of this Act, the Violence Against Women Act of
1994.
Section 2 and 3 provides definitions and findings for the provisions of this
Act and the reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act,
specifically providing for the merging and consolidation of executive
departments .
Section 4 formally reauthorizes the Violence Against Women Act.
Section 5 adjusts all funds appropriated by the Violence Against Women Act
for inflation.
Section 6 details that the additional funding authorized for the purposes of
this Act shall come from the Office of Violence Against Women, an office
under the Attorney General and the Department of Justice.
(9)

Section 7 implements culturally specific justice and sexual violence programs.
Section 8 implements programs that address new avenues to justice.
Section 9 expands tribal jurisdiction over sexual crimes.
Section 10 expands rape prevention programs through the expansion of their
scope as well as boosts in funding; a report from the Secretary of Health
and Human Services is mandated in addition to an advertisement
program that will promote the expansion of these programs.
Section 11 closes loopholes that previously allowed law enforcement officers
to sexually assault or harrass individuals who were in detention or being
arrested by those law enforcement officers; it includes a prohibition that
ensures that an officer being prosecuted under the section may not
stipulate that both parties consented to sexual acts as a defense.
Section 12 ensures economic security for victims of sexual crimes by
expanding the scope of economic security programs for those victims; it
also prohibits the federal government and state governments from
denying unemployment benefits if a victim is out of a job because they
were a victim of a sexual crime.
Section 13 expands the scope of U-visas to include immigrant victims of
sexual crimes.
Section 14 mandates that the Secretary of Welfare study the impact of the
government shutdown and resulting lack of reauthorization of the
Violence Against Women Act.
SECTION 16: SUPREMACYAND SEVERABILITY.
SUPREMACY.—Foranyprovision ofanystatute that contradictsanysectionof this act,the
contradictoryprovision ofthat statute shallbestruckandnullified.
SEVERABILITY.—If anysection, subsection,paragraph, subparagraph,clause,subclause,
provision, or amendmentmadebythe applicationof this actis deemedunconstitutionalor
unenforceable,it shallbe struck. Theremainingsections, subsections, paragraphs,
subparagraphs, clauses,subclauses, provisions,or amendmentsmade bythe applicationof this
act shallremainvalid,enforceable, andineffect.
SECTION 17: ENACTMENT
(10)

1. Should any portionof this actbe foundtobe unconstitutional,illegal,or otherwise
incongruentwith existentUnited Stateslaw,that portion orportionsshallbe struckwith
all othersremaining intact
2. Theprovisionsof this Actshallgointo effectimmediately uponitssignature bythe
President.
(11)