173RD CONGRESS
2ND SESSION
S. 5
To allow voters the choice to reject all candidates running for
federal office.
MR. HARRIS-CHAREST (for himself, MR. LEMAIRE, MR. EMPERIO) introduced
the following bill.
AN ACT
To allow voters the choice to reject all candidates running for federal office.
Be it enacted by the Senate and the House of Representatives of the United States of America
in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the Voicing Opinions To Exclude those Running Act of 2024,
or the VOTER Act.
SEC 2. BALLOT REQUIREMENTS FOR FEDERAL ELECTIONS.
Title 52, United States Code, is amended by inserting after Chapter 107 the
following:
“CHAPTER 108 – RIGHT TO REJECT CANDIDATES
“§ 10801. Addition of an option to reject all persons running.
“(a) IN GENERAL.—All ballots provided to the citizens of the
United States containing a federal election shall be required to—
“(1) Provide an option rejecting all candidates running;

2
“(2) Ensure that such option is well labeled and is easy
to understand in all languages that the ballot is offered in
“(3) Display such an option preceding all other names of
candidates on the ballot; and,
“(3) All requisite chief election officials charged with
administering elections among the several States shall ensure
that all those voting are aware of such an option, and are
aware of the consequences of selecting such an option.”
This section shall only apply to sections of ballots containing
candidates to fill the office(s) of President and Vice President of the
United States, Senator of the requisite states, or Representatives of
the several districts.
“(b) EFFECTS.— Should the option provided in paragraph
(a)(1) receive the highest number of votes, then no candidate shall be
elected to the office for the succeeding term.
“(1) This shall not apply to candidates for President of
the United States, and Vice President of the United States. In
the event that option provided in paragraph (a)(1) receives the
highest number of votes in an election for President and Vice
President of the United States, the winner shall be the
candidate with the next highest number of votes.
SEC 3. SUPREMACY.
For the purposes of enacting this Act, any laws in conflict with this Act shall be
immediately rescinded and rendered null and void.
SEC 4. SEVERABILITY.
If any provision of this Act, or any amendment made by this Act, or the application
of such provision to any person, entity, government, or circumstance, is held to be
unconstitutional, the remainder of this Act, or any amendment made thereby, or the
application of such provision to all other persons, entities, governments, or
circumstances, shall not be affected thereby.

3
SEC 5. EFFECTIVE DATE.
This act shall come into force immediately upon either the signature of the
President, or passage by override of a Presidential Veto.