IN THE UNITED STATES HOUSE
OF REPRESENTATIVES
November 24th, 2020
Representative Ricca (For Himself, Representatives Haddock, Poliman,
Senators Kyouko, Koay) Introduces The Following Bill, as amended by
Senator Graves;
A BILL
To revise and modify provisions regarding maternity leave, welfare for
families and veterans and other purposes.
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This bill may be cited as the “Welfare, Families and Veterans Act
2020”, or “WFV Act, 2020”, or H.R. 36.
SECTION 2. PUB. L. 103-3, TITLE 1, SECTION 101.
(a) Subsection (2)(A)(ii), which requires an employee to have worked
at least 1,250 hours in the past 12 months, equivalent to 26 hours per
week, in order to be eligible for leave, is repealed.
(b) Subsection (2)(B), restricting the eligibility of leave under this
title to non-governmental employees, is repealed.
(c) Subsection (2)(C), containing guidelines related to subsection
(2)(a)(ii), is repealed.
(d) The “12 months” in subsection (2)(A)(i) is amended to read “6
months”, halving the requisite period of employment before an
employee becomes eligible for leave under this title.

(e) Subsection (2)(D)(i)(II), which applies the requirements under
subsection (2)(A)(ii) to members of airline flight crews, is repealed.
(f) Subsection (4)(A)(i) is amended to read “means any person
engaged in commerce or in any industry or activity affecting
commerce;”, removing a size threshold on employers who are subject
to the requirements of this title.
(g) Subsection (7) is amended to read “The term “parent” means the
parent of an employee or an individual who stood in loco parentis to
an employee when the employee was a son or daughter.”, removing
the need for a biological relationship.
SECTION 3. PUB. L. 103-3, TITLE 1, SECTION 102.
(a) Subsection (b)(1) is amended to read “Leave under subsection
(a)(1) may be taken intermittently or on a reduced leave schedule
upon the request of the employee. The taking of leave intermittently
or on a reduced leave schedule pursuant to this paragraph shall not
result in a reduction in the total amount of leave to which the
employee is entitled under subsection (a) beyond the amount of leave
actually taken. It shall constitute a violation of this section for the
employer to pressure in any way, shape or form any of their
employees in taking their leave in such a manner.”, removing the
potential of job transfers or other burdens due to intermittent or
reduced leave.
(b) Subsection (b)(2), containing provisions related to subsection
(b)(1)’s original form, is repealed.
(c) Subsections (c) and (d), containing provisions related to
subsection (b)(1)’s original form, are repealed.

(d) Subsection (f), imposing additional burdens on spouses employed
by the same employer, is repealed.
SECTION 4. ENACTMENT
The provisions of this act shall become effective one month after
passage. This bill shall be mutual with all other laws, unless
conflicting, by which they are to be stricken null and void.