H.R. 3
To ban the allocation of federal funds for School Resource Officers.
⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES OF THE UNITED
STATES
MARCH 19th, 2022
Mr. LIGHTWOOD (for himself,) introduced the following bill,
⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯
A BILL
To ban the allocation of federal funds for School Resource Officers.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress assembled,
SECTION. 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the “William Justice Education Funding Reallocation Act”.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
For the purposes of this Act, the term —
(a) “Sworn Law Enforcement Officer” means any person who —
(i) has the power to detain, arrest, issue a citation, perform a custodial
investigation, or refer a person to criminal or juvenile court; or
(ii) is considered under State law to meet the definition of law
enforcement; and
(b) “School Resource Officer” means any person who —

(i) has the authorities granted to a sworn law enforcement officer on
public school grounds as employed by requisite education departments;
or
(ii) is considered under State law to meet the definition of School Resource
Officer.
SEC. 3. FINDINGS.
Congress finds that —
(a) The Congressional Research Service, in conjunction with data collected from
other firms, has estimated that School Resource Officers only successfully
prevent an act of violence with homicidal intent 1 in 197 occurrences, on
average.
(b) The ACLU has found that, in addition to School Resource Officers primarily
targeting students of color and exacerbating arrest rates among minority
student groups, they have also decreased high school graduation rates by
2.5% on average and increased disciplinary rates for students by 6%, due to
their contribution to a harmful school environment that makes it more
difficult for students to learn productively.
(c) The University of Connecticut found that the federal government has, since
the passage of the infamous ‘Crime Bill’ of 1994, spent over two billion dollars
on the subsidization of School Resource Officers. With this funding, the
federal government could have permanently ended most student poverty or
all student homelessness.
(d) William Justice was one of the most effective Secretaries of Education in
recent memory for multiple Administrations and has brought considerable
attention to the issue of over-policing in public schools over the course of his
career.
SEC. 4. PROHIBITION OF FEDERAL FUNDING FOR POLICE IN
SCHOOLS.

(a) FUNDING PROHIBITION.— Notwithstanding the Omnibus Crime Control
and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (34 USC §10101 et seq.), or any other provision
of law, no Federal funds may be appropriated or used for hiring, maintaining,
or training sworn law enforcement officers to be used or employed in
elementary or secondary schools, preschools, or programs based in
elementary or secondary schools in any capacity.
(b) INTENT OF CONGRESS.— The above clause shall not be construed to
signify the prohibition of School Resource Officer programs nor the
prohibition of the use of state, local, or benefactory funds towards School
Resource Officer programs, merely the prohibition of the use of federal funds
towards such services. The above clause shall also not be construed to signify
the intent of Congress to end School Resource Officers.
SEC. 5. REMOVAL OF APPROPRIATION RENEWALS FROM PRIOR
STATUTE.
(a) CRIME BILL 1968.— Section 1701 of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control
and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (34 USC §10381) is amended, in subsection (b)
—
(i) by striking paragraph (12);
(ii) by redesignating paragraphs (13) through (23) as paragraphs (12)
through (22), respectively; and
(iii) in paragraph (21), as so redesignated, by striking “through (21)”
and inserting “through (20)”; and
(iv) by adding at the end the following: “(n) Prohibition On Use Of
Funds For Sworn Law Enforcement Officers.—A recipient of a
grant under this part may not use the grant funds for sworn law
enforcement officers who operate in and around elementary and
secondary schools.”
(b) CRIME BILL 1994.— The Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act
shall be amended by —

(i) Repealing Title XX Subtitle A (42 USC §14091) in its entirety; and
(ii) Repealing Title XX Subtitle B (42 USC §14111) in its entirety.
SEC. 6. SEVERABILITY.
(a) IN GENERAL.— Should any provision of this Act be deemed invalid or
unconstitutional for any reason in a court with relevant jurisdiction, the rest
of the Act, and the application of the remaining provisions, shall not be
affected.
SEC. 7. ENACTMENT.
The provisions of this Act shall come into force immediately upon passage.