IN THE CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES
APRIL 7, 2020
Mr. LESTER (author) and the VITA ADMINISTRATION (for
themselves, Mr. COLLIN, Mr. MCKENNA, Mr. DILLON, Mr.
HOLBROOK, Mr. HARDER, Mr. PLURIBUS, Mr. BO, Mr.
MATTHEW, Mr. TOWARD) introduced the following bill;
A BILL
To direct the Department of Labor to carry out a Federal subsidized employment program, and
for other purposes.
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This bill may be cited as the “Work Opportunity Act of 2020”.
SECTION 2. PURPOSE.
The purpose of this Act is to carry out a program—
(1) to provide access to a job through federally subsidized employment for
individuals who are unemployed, underemployed, and jobless but want to work;
(2) to assist such individuals in coping with structural unemployment in their
communities, job displacement resulting from deindustrialization, trade, automation, and
artificial intelligence, as well as societal barriers that separate the most vulnerable
jobless from employment;
(3) to provide for credentialing and certificates that employers recognize and help
provide both low-income and middle-class jobseekers with concrete pathways to good
paying, skilled jobs; and

(4) to expand services automatically during economic downturns to address
unemployment and stabilize the national economy and State economies.
SECTION 3. Funding.
(a) Federal Subsidized Employment Program.—
(1) STATE ALLOCATIONS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—From amounts appropriated under subsection (b)(1), the Secretary
of Labor shall pay to each State that has an application approved under section 6, for each
quarter, beginning with the quarter beginning on or after the date of the enactment of this
Act, an amount equal to the Federal percentage of the total amount expended by the State
during such quarter under—
(i) the Federal subsidized employment program under section 4;
(ii) the program of block grants to States for temporary assistance for needy
families established under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act;
(iii) any program under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act; and
(iv) any other Federal program under which Federal funding is provided to
subsidize employment.
(B) FEDERAL PERCENTAGE.—For purposes of subparagraph (A), the Federal
percentage for any State shall be 100 percent less the State percentage, and the State
percentage shall be that percentage that bears the same ratio to 45 percent as the square
of the per capita income of such State bears to the square of the per capita income of
the continental United States, including Alaska and Hawaii, except that the Federal
percentage shall in no case be less than 75 percent or more than 100 percent. Such
Federal percentage shall be increased each quarter by the year-over-year percentage
point increase, if any, in the three-month average unemployment rate of the State.
(2) LOCAL ENTITY ALLOCATIONS.—

(A) IN GENERAL.—From amounts made available under subsection (b)(2), the
Secretary of Labor shall award grants, on a competitive basis and in an amount
determined under subparagraph (B)—
(i) to local entities to carry out the Federal subsidized employment program
under section 4; and
(ii) to not more than 15 local entities to carry out a jobs guarantee program in
accordance with section 5.
(B) AMOUNT OF GRANT.—In determining the amount a grant awarded to a
local entity under subparagraph (A), the Secretary of Labor shall ensure that the grant
amount is adequate to reach each community served by the local entity.
(b) Mandatory Funding.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2), there are authorized to be appropriated,
and there are appropriated (in addition to any other amounts appropriated to carry out this
Act and out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated) such sums as may be
necessary to carry out this Act.
(2) COMPETITIVE GRANT PROGRAMS.—The amount of funds that shall be made
available for the competitive grants under subsection (a)(2) for a fiscal year shall be equal to
the result obtained by multiplying—
(A) the difference between—
(i) the number of individuals counted under the U–6 measure of
unemployment and underemployment most recently published by the Bureau of
Labor Statistics of the Department of Labor; and
(ii) the number of individuals participating in the program carried out under
subsection (a)(1); and
(B) average cost for each participant under such program.
SEC. 4. FEDERAL SUBSIDIZED EMPLOYMENT PROGRAM.

Each grantee receiving funds under paragraph (1) or (2)(A)(i) of section 3(a) shall carry out,
or expand, a program that provides access to federally subsidized employment for all eligible
individuals as follows:
(1) PARTICIPATING EMPLOYERS.—
(A) AMOUNT OF SUBSIDIES.—A grantee shall provide each participating
employer with a subsidy in an amount that—
(i) covers up to 150 percent of the wages that the employer pays to eligible
individuals who are employed in a position covered by a collective-bargaining
agreement in effect with the employer; and
(ii) covers up to 120 percent of the wages that the employer pays to eligible
individuals who are employed under the program in a position not covered by a
collective-bargaining agreement in effect with the employer.
(B) HIRING REQUIREMENTS.—
(i) WORKFORCE.—
(I) IN GENERAL.—To remain eligible to receive additional placements
of subsidized employees under this Act, a participating employer who seeks
to employ, on a cumulative basis, more than 15 eligible individuals under the
program shall be required to hire, in an unsubsidized capacity, not less than
the greater of 4 employees or 25 percent of the employees who were
previously placed with the employer through the subsidized job program.
(II) EXCEPTION.—The requirements of subclause (I) shall not apply
during a period that is an economic recession.
(ii) NONDISPLACEMENT OF UNSUBSIDIZED EMPLOYEES.—The
grantee may not employ an individual under the program, if—
(I) employing such individual will result in the layoff or partial
displacement (such as a reduction in hours, wages, or employee benefits) of
an existing employee of the grantee who was not hired under the program, or

will result in infringing upon the promotional opportunities of such existing
employee; or
(II) such individual will perform the same or substantially similar work
that had previously been performed by such an existing employee who—
(aa) has been laid off or partially displaced; and
(bb) has not been offered by the employer, to be restored to the
position the employee had immediately prior to being laid off or
partially displaced.
(iii) ELIMINATION OF POSITION.—
(I) IN GENERAL.—Clause (ii) shall not apply to any position that has
been eliminated by a grantee.
(II) DESCRIPTION.—For purposes of this clause, a position shall be
considered to have been eliminated by a grantee if the position has remained
unfilled and the grantee has not sought to fill such position for at least a
period of one month.
(iv) NONDISPLACEMENT OF STATE OR LOCAL GOVERNMENT
SERVICES.—The grantee may not employ an individual under the program to
provide services or functions that are customarily provided by the grantee.
(v) CONSENT OF UNION.—An employer that has a collective-bargaining
agreement in effect with a labor organization, or an employer whose employees
are represented by a labor organization for purposes of collective bargaining, shall
seek the consent of the labor organization representing its employees to
participate in the program under this Act.
(vi) OTHER PARTICIPATING EMPLOYERS.—In addition to other entities
that may serve as participating employers under this section, nonprofit entities,
local government entities (except as provided in clause (iv)), and labor
organizations may serve as participating employers, administrators, or
intermediaries under this section.

(2) TECHNICAL TRAINING.—
(A) EMPLOYEES IN-DEMAND INDUSTRY SECTORS OR
OCCUPATIONS.—With respect to an eligible individual employed under the program
by an employer in an in-demand industry sector or occupation, subject to the
administrator of the job placement entity selected by the grantee and upon completion
of 3 months of satisfactory job performance, the employer may receive additional
funds under the program to enable such individual to pursue a general equivalency
diploma, or a year of career and technical education that leads to a recognized
postsecondary credential required for continued employment in such sector or
occupation.
(B) OTHER EMPLOYEES.—With respect to an eligible individual employed
under the program who is not employed in an industry sector or occupation described
in subparagraph (A), subject to the administrator of the job placement entity selected
by the grantee and upon completion of 3 months of satisfactory job performance, such
individual may be provided with an opportunity to pursue up to a year of career and
technical education.
(3) ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUAL.—To participate in the program an individual shall—
(A) be at least 18 years of age; and
(B) (i) have been unemployed for more than 90 days by demonstrating to the
program administrator selected by the grantee involved—
(I) that the individual has been registered as unemployed for more than 90
days under a State unemployment insurance system; or
(II) through submission of a self-affidavit that demonstrates that the
individual has been so unemployed; or
(ii) have had earnings for the previous 6 months that are below the poverty line.
(4) PLACEMENT LENGTH.—

(A) IN GENERAL.—A period of employment with a participating employer
under the program for an individual shall be not longer than 18 months, and not less
than 3 months, except that such period—
(i) may be shorter in the case of termination of the individual for
unsatisfactory performance;
(ii) may be extended—
(I) for an additional 12-month period in a case in which the eligible
individual is pursuing the career and technical education described in
paragraph (2); or
(II) in the case of an individual with a barrier to employment; and
(iii) shall not be applicable during a period that is an economic recession.
(B) MAXIMUM PARTICIPATION.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—During a 10-year period, an eligible individual may
have not more than 3 separate periods of employment under the program.
(ii) DIFFERENT EMPLOYERS.—Each period of employment shall be with
a different participating employer.
(iii) CONTINUED ELIGIBILITY.—An eligible individual shall become
eligible for a new period of employment under the program if the individual is
unemployed not less than 4 weeks after the conclusion of the individual’s
previous employment period under the program.
(iv) INAPPLICABILITY.—This subparagraph shall not apply during a
period of economic recession or for individuals with barriers to employment.
(5) WRAPAROUND SERVICES.—Any wraparound services (such as screening,
matching, and job preparation services, and transportation, childcare, and counseling)
provided with funds under this Act shall be minimal and may only be used—

(A) for the individuals with barriers to employment and who shall be made aware
of similar opportunities available through local, State, or Federal social welfare
programs; and
(B) with an evidence-based approach regarding the impact and importance of
such services to the job placement of the individual, as determined by the Secretary of
Labor.
(6) OUTREACH.—
(A) GRANTEES.—Each grantee shall make available, on a publicly available
website of the grantee, information on program opportunities for potential employees
and employers.
(B) WEBSITE.—The Secretary of Labor shall create a publicly available website
to provide information connecting prospective employees with program administrators.
SEC. 5. JOBS GUARANTEE PROGRAM.
(a) In General.—The Secretary of Labor shall carry out a pilot program under which the
Secretary makes grants, on a competitive basis, to not more than 5 local entities to assist such
entities in carrying out a jobs guarantee program as described in subsection (b).
(b) Use Of Funds.—A local entity that receives a grant under subsection (a) shall use the
grant to carry out a program that provides jobs that—
(1) are available to all individuals who—
(A) are 18 years of age or older; and
(B) reside in the area served under the program, except that participants in the
program may be disciplined, released, or suspended from further participation in jobs
under the program if they are found to be negligent, or generally disruptive to the
workplace involved under procedures established by the Secretary of Labor that
provide for an opportunity for a review of such determinations;
(2) are, with respect to individual participants, included as part of an established
bargaining unit and covered by any applicable collective bargaining agreement in effect if

similarly situated employees part of such unit and represented by an exclusive bargaining
representative;
(3) are available for the duration of the pilot program;
(4) provide a wage of not less than the greater of—
(A) the hourly wage provided for under the provisions of S. 1242 (115th
Congress), as introduced;
(B) the prevailing wage in the area involved for a similar job as required by
chapter 67 of title 41, United States Code, and other related laws; or
(C) the applicable wage under an applicable collective bargaining agreement as
provided for under subparagraph (B);
(5) provide for coverage of the worker under a health insurance program that is
comparable to that offered to Federal employees under the Federal Employee Health
Benefits Program; and
(6) provide, at a minimum—
(A) paid family leave consistent with the provisions of S. 337 (111th Congress),
as introduced, and applicable State law; and
(B) paid sick leave consistent with the provision of S. 1152 (115th Congress), as
introduced, and applicable State law.
SEC. 6. APPLICATIONS.
(a) State Applications.—To receive an allocation under this Act a State shall submit to the
Secretary of Labor, a plan at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the
Secretary may require, which shall include a description of how the State will use the
allocation—
(1) to use funds to carry out the program in areas in the State proportionate to the rates
of joblessness, underemployment, and poverty in such areas, as determined by the
Secretary; and

(2) to target individuals with barriers to employment.
(b) Local Applications.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—To receive a grant under this Act, a local entity shall submit to
the Secretary of Labor, a plan, at such time, in such manner, and containing such
information as the Secretary may require, which shall include a demonstration of the local
entity’s ability to meet the purposes described in section 2.
(2) PRIORITY.—In awarding grants under this Act to local entities, the Secretary of
Labor shall give priority to local entities that will use the grant to—
(A) serve areas that are facing acute challenges, including persistent racial
unemployment gap, drug addiction epidemics, or high mortality rates, as determined
by the Secretary of Labor; and
(B) carry out programs that provide participating individuals with general
equivalency diplomas, recognized postsecondary credentials, and paid apprenticeships.
(c) Technical Assistance.—The Secretary of Labor may reserve a portion of the funds
appropriated under this Act to provide technical assistance to local entities that seek to apply for
a grant under this Act. In providing such technical assistance, the Secretary shall give priority to
local entities that the Secretary determines have the greatest need for such assistance.
SEC. 7. EVALUATION AND EXPANSION, AND REPORT.
(a) Evaluation And Expansion.—Not later than 18 months after the date on which the first
grant or allocation is awarded under this Act, and annually thereafter, the Secretary of Labor
shall—
(1) develop a strategy (which shall include annual, representative, and random surveys
of employees and employers under the programs)—
(A) to determine whether the programs under this Act are accomplishing the
purposes described in section 2; and
(B) to improve the programs to better accomplish such purposes; and

(2) expand the programs under this Act until a determination is made that equal rates
of joblessness in all regions and among all demographic groups have been achieved.
(b) Report.—Not later than 18 months after the first grant is awarded under this Act, and
annually thereafter, the Secretary of Labor shall submit to Congress a report that includes the
information described in subsection (a) for the purpose of providing Congress with an informed
opportunity to update this Act and to effectively achieve the purposes described in section 2.
SEC. 8. REVISIONS TO TEMPORARY ASSISTANCE TO NEEDY FAMILIES
(TANF).
In General.—
(a) States shall be directed to allocate at least 60 percent of TANF block grant funds
directly towards families needing financial assistance (as defined in Section 9).
(b) The federal government shall allocate an additional $6,400,000,000 per year to
fund TANF. Federal spending on TANF shall increase or decrease with the rate of
increase or decrease in the value of the US dollar.
SEC. 9. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) CAREER AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION.—The term "career and technical
education" means organized educational activities that-
(A) offer a sequence of courses that-
(i) provides individuals with rigorous academic content and relevant technical
knowledge and skills needed to prepare for further education and careers in current or
emerging professions, which may include high-skill, high-wage, or in-demand industry
sectors or occupations, which shall be, at the secondary level, aligned with the challenging
State academic standards adopted by a State under section 6311(b)(1) of this title;
(ii) provides technical skill proficiency or a recognized postsecondary credential, which
may include an industry-recognized credential, a certificate, or an associate degree; and
(iii) may include prerequisite courses (other than a remedial course) that meet the
requirements of this subparagraph;

(B) include competency-based, work-based, or other applied learning that supports the
development of academic knowledge, higher-order reasoning and problem-solving skills,
work attitudes, employability skills, technical skills, and occupation-specific skills, and
knowledge of all aspects of an industry, including entrepreneurship, of an individual;
(C) to the extent practicable, coordinate between secondary and postsecondary education
programs through programs of study, which may include coordination through articulation
agreements, early college high school programs, dual or concurrent enrollment program
opportunities, or other credit transfer agreements that provide postsecondary credit or
advanced standing; and
(D) may include career exploration at the high school level or as early as the middle grade
(2) GRANTEE.—The term “grantee” means a State that receives an allocation under
section 3(a)(1) or a local entity that receives a grant under section 3(a)(2).
(3) INDIVIDUAL WITH A BARRIER TO EMPLOYMENT.—The term “individual
with a barrier to employment” means a member of one or more of the following
populations:
(A) Displaced homemakers.
(B) Indians, Alaska Natives, and Native Hawaiians, as such terms are defined in
section 166 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act.
(C) Individuals with disabilities, including youth who are individuals with
disabilities.
(D) Older individuals.
(E) Ex-offenders.
(F) Homeless individuals (as defined in section 41403(6) of the Violence Against
Women Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 14043e–2(6))), or homeless children and youths (as
defined in section 725(2) of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C.
11434a(2))).

(G) Individuals who are English language learners, individuals who have low
levels of literacy or who have not more than a high school diploma or the equivalent,
and individuals facing substantial cultural barriers.
(H) Individuals within 2 years of exhausting lifetime eligibility under part A of
title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 601 et seq.).
(I) Single parents (including single pregnant women).
(J) Long-term unemployed individuals.
(K) Such other groups as the Secretary of Labor determines to have barriers to
employment.
(4) LOCAL ENTITY.—The term “local entity” means a unit of general local
government or a nonprofit or other organization serving such a unit.
(5) PERIOD OF ECONOMIC RECESSION.—The term “period of economic
recession” means not less than a consecutive 3-month period of decline in national payroll
employment, which shall be determined to have ended on the date on which the national
payroll employment reaches the level reported by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the
Department of Labor in the highest month of national payroll employment prior to such
period of decline.
(6) WIOA TERMS.—The terms “in-demand industry sector or occupation”, “poverty
line”, “recognized postsecondary credential”, “State”, and “unit of general local
government” have the meanings given the terms in section 3 of the Workforce Innovation
and Opportunity Act.
(7) NEEDY FAMILIES: Families with incomes at or below the federal poverty line.