RULES
of the
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
________________




ONE HUNDRED AND EIGHTY SIXTH CONGRESS


________________
________________


C O N T E N T S
________________




TITLE I
REPRESENTATIVES AND HOUSE BODIES        1
Rule 1 — Representatives.        1
Rule 2 — Standards of Conduct.        1
Rule 3 — Provisional Speaker.        1
Rule 4 — Election of Leadership.        1
Rule 5 — Appointment of Leadership.        2
Rule 6 — Vacancies.        3
Rule 7 — Duties of the Speaker.        3
Rule 8 — Duties of the Speaker pro tempore.        4
Rule 9 — Impartiality of the Speaker.        4
Rule 10 — Incompatibility of Elected Offices.        4
TITLE II
SUBMISSION, DEBATE, AND WITHDRAWAL OF DOCUMENTS        5
Rule 11 — Submission.        5
Rule 12 — Debate on House Floor; Amendments.        5
Rule 13 — Withdrawal.        6
Rule 14 — Presidential Vetoes.        6
TITLE III
RELATIONS WITH OTHER INSTITUTIONS AND BODIES        7
Rule 15 — Transmission of Passed Documents.        7
TITLE IV
FLOOR PROCEEDINGS        8
Rule 16 — Parliamentary Term.        8
Rule 17 — Agenda.        8
Rule 18 — Speaker Recognition.        8
Rule 19 — Prevention of Obstruction.        8
Rule 20 — Admittance to the Floor.        9
Rule 21 — Mutual Respect.        9
Rule 22 — Non-Compliance: Chamber Removal.        9
Rule 23 — Non-Compliance: Reprimand and Censure.        9
Rule 24 — Non-Compliance: Expulsion.        10
Rule 25 — Quorum.        10
Rule 26 — Voting: Right to Vote.        10
Rule 27 — Voting: Method and Calculation.        10
Rule 28 — Voting: Length.        10
Rule 29 — Repealed.        11
Rule 30 — Points of Order.        11
Rule 31 — Parliamentary Inquiry.        11
Rule 32 — Procedural Motions.        11
Rule 33 — Repealed.        12
Rule 34 — Adopted Texts.        12
TITLE V
STANDING COMMITTEES        13
Rule 35 — Committees; Refusal to Consider Legislation; Special Rules.        13
Rule 36 — Committee Membership.        14
Rule 37 — Committee Procedure.        14
TITLE VI
AMENDMENTS TO THE RULES OF PROCEDURE        16
Rule 38 — Amendments to the Rules.        16
TITLE VII
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS        17
Rule 39 — Unfinished Business.        17
Rule 40 — Corrigendum.        17
Rule 41 — Rules When Not Otherwise Specified.        17
Rule 42 — Construction of the Rules.        17
Rule 43 — Removal of the Speaker.        17
Rule 44 — Further Rules Regarding the Committee on Ethics and Oversight.        18
Rule 45 — House Awards and Honors.        18


TITLE I
REPRESENTATIVES AND HOUSE BODIES
Rule 1 — Representatives.
1. Any Member of the House of Representatives shall be referred to as a ‘Representative’, ‘congressman’, ‘congresswoman’, ‘congressperson’, or ‘Member’. Representatives may address one another as ‘colleagues’. Any other appropriate reference to a Member is in order.
Rule 2 — Standards of Conduct.
1. The conduct of Representatives shall be characterized by mutual respect. Representatives shall respect the House’s dignity and shall not harm its reputation.
2. Representatives shall not disrupt the good order on the floor of the House and shall refrain from improper behavior. Representatives shall not utilize offensive language on the floor.
   1. The assessment of whether the language used by a Representative in a debate is prohibited under the provisions of this clause shall take into consideration, inter alia, the identifiable intentions of the speaker, the perception of the statement by the public, the extent to which it harms the dignity and reputation of the House, and the freedom of speech of the Representative concerned.
   2. The provisions of this rule shall apply mutatis mutandis to confirmation hearings and other House bodies.
3. The application of this Rule shall not otherwise detract from the liveliness of parliamentary debates, nor shall it undermine a Representative's freedom of speech.
Rule 3 — Provisional Speaker.
1. At the first sitting of a term, and at any other sitting held for the purpose of electing the Speaker, the House Clerk, as appropriate, or, in their absence, the outgoing Speaker, shall take the chair until the Speaker has been elected.
2. No business shall be conducted until such time as a Speaker has been elected, except the election of the Speaker.
3. The outgoing Clerk of the House at the time of adjournment sine die shall act as Speaker until the Speaker of the next session has been elected. They shall be empowered to direct any and all Capitol proceedings as if they were Speaker during this time.
Rule 4 — Election of Leadership.
1. The Speaker shall be elected by means of instant runoff, ranked-choice voting via electronic form.
   1. There shall be a nomination period of 12 hours before the ballot. Any Representative may nominate any person but that person must accept the nomination.
   2. The ballot shall remain open for 24 hours.
   3. If on the first round of voting a person does not have a majority of those voting and present, the lowest scoring candidate, or candidates if there is a tie, shall be eliminated and their votes shall go to their second choice. This process shall repeat until a member has a majority of those voting.
2. Concurrent with the Speakership election, a Majority and Minority Leader shall be elected via electronic form.
   1. The nomination period will be concurrent with the one for the Speakership with only Representatives being able to get nominated.
   2. The ballot shall be open for 24 hours concurrent with the Speakership ballot.
   3. Whoever receives the most votes in the election shall be elected Majority Leader and whoever receives the second-most votes in the election shall be elected Minority Leader.
   4. In the event of a tie, the Speaker shall decide.
3. In the event of a vacancy of either the Majority or Minority Leader, the caucus with the vacancy shall present the name of a Representative as leader within 24 hours.
   1. Should the caucus not remit a name to the Speaker, the Speaker shall appoint an interim leader until the new leader is decided by the caucus, should they choose to replace the caucus leader.
Rule 5 — Appointment of Leadership.
1. The Speaker shall announce the appointment of a single Speaker pro tempore as soon as possible after their election.
2. The Speaker, or the Speaker pro tempore in their absence, may further call upon any member of the House, the Clerk of the House, and/or the House Parliamentarian, to provisionally take the gavel and preside over the proceedings of the House, and may establish any system as they see fit to permit Representatives to carry out the provisions of this Rule. The Speaker, or Speaker Pro Tempore in their absence, may at any point retake the gavel. A member that is currently presiding on the House as described above shall be deemed to be House Presiding Officer, and shall be referred to by the other members of the House as “Mr or Madam Speaker”, unless other pronouns are requested.
3. The Clerk of the House shall be appointed by a privileged resolution authored by the Speaker with their recommendations and immediately thereafter put before the House at the beginning of each regular session of Congress, and when a vacancy in the Office of the Clerk occurs, and shall be responsible for:
   1. the administration of all the records of the House;
   2. calling the Members-elect to order at the commencement of each Congress; to call the roll of Members-elect, and, pending the election of the Speaker, to preserve order and decorum; and to decide all questions of order;
   3. noting all questions of order, and decisions thereon;
   4. attesting and affixing the seal of the House to all writs, warrants, and subpoenas and formal documents issued by the House;
   5. certifying the passage by the House of all bills and joint resolutions;
   6. retaining, in the official library, a permanent set of the books and documents generated by the House;
   7. managing the office and supervising the staff of any vacant Member; and
   8. the administration, maintenance, and display of the works of fine art and other similar property of the Congress for display or for other use in the House wing of the Capitol, the House Office Buildings, or any other location under the control of the House.
   9. Presiding in the absence of the Speaker, Speaker Pro Tempore, or their appointed presiding officers.
4. The Deputy Clerk shall be appointed by the privileged resolution provided for in this Rule at the beginning of each regular session of Congress, and when a vacancy in the Office of the Deputy Clerk occurs, and under the direction and authority of the Clerk, shall also be responsible for all the duties of the Clerk.
5. The Speaker, the Chief Administrative Officer, or their designees shall grant access to the Clerk of the House and Deputy Clerk all libraries, documents, information, systems, documents, spreadsheets, and any other access required that is pertinent to their responsibilities while in office.
Rule 6 — Vacancies.
1. If it becomes necessary for the Speaker, Speaker pro tempore, Clerk, or Deputy Clerk, or any other officer of the House to be replaced, a successor shall be elected or appointed in accordance with Rule 4 and the other Rules of the House.
Rule 7 — Duties of the Speaker.
1. The Speaker shall direct all the activities of the House in accordance with these Rules and shall enjoy all powers that are necessary to preside over the proceedings of the House and to ensure that they are properly conducted.
2. The duties of the Speaker shall be to call the House to order, to put the House in recess, and to adjourn the House; to ensure observance of these Rules; to maintain order; to call upon speakers; to close debates; to put questions before the House; and to sign any document passed by the House.
3. The Speaker shall, upon calling the House to order on each sitting day, announce the legislative agenda for the day. It shall be the Speaker’s discretion to decide the agenda: Provided, That this clause shall not restrict the ability of the House to move to proceed to the consideration of legislation or to appropriately discharge legislation from committees.
4. The Speaker shall have the duty to monitor the status of measures referred to Committees. To this end, the Speaker may establish a periodic review schedule of pending legislation.
   1. Any action taken by the Speaker to discharge, table, or reassign a measure shall be subject to appeal by a majority vote of the House. The Speaker must also provide justification for any such action, which shall be entered into the Congressional Record.
Rule 8 — Duties of the Speaker pro tempore.
1. If the Speaker is absent or unable to discharge their duties, or if the Speaker wishes to take part in a debate pursuant to Rule 9, they shall be replaced by the Speaker pro tempore.
2. The Speaker may delegate any duties to the Speaker pro tempore.
3. If the Speaker pro tempore is absent or unable to discharge their duties, the Speaker may designate a Representative to act as Speaker pro tempore until the Speaker or the Speaker pro tempore are able to fulfill their duties.
4. The Speaker pro tempore shall be assumed to have all powers of the Speaker as are necessary to carry out required tasks in the Speaker’s absence unless otherwise stated by the Speaker.
Rule 9 — Impartiality of the Speaker.
1. The Speaker shall not debate from the Chair, provided that he may debate only when recognized by another member presiding.
Rule 10 — Incompatibility of Elected Offices.
1. The Office of Speaker shall be incompatible with that of Majority and Minority Leader.
________________
TITLE II
SUBMISSION, DEBATE, AND WITHDRAWAL OF DOCUMENTS
Rule 11 — Submission.
1. Representatives may request a reference for a legislative document from the House Clerk. Such reference shall consist of a characterization of the nature of the document and an attributed number, in the following manner:
   1. “H.R. [number]” for Bills;
   2. “H.Res. [number]” for Resolutions;
   3. “H.J.Res. [number]” for Joint Resolutions;
   4. “H.Con.Res [number]” for Concurrent Resolutions;
   5. “H.C.Rep. [number]” for Committee Reports;
   6. Any other reference as may be necessary to account for the diversity of the documents submitted, provided that it includes a number.
2. Bills, Resolutions, and other documents submitted to the House may be submitted to the Legislative Docket only after having first received a reference number from the House Clerk, his Deputy, or, in absence of the Clerk as provided in Rule 11(5), the Speaker of the House or Speaker pro-tempore. 
3. The visible name of each document submitted in the Legislative Docket shall be its reference as attributed by the House Clerk.
4. No document may be submitted that plagiarizes the content word-for-word of that of another Representative following or on the date of December 11, 2019, without their express and written permission, nor may any document submitted to the Legislative Docket be amended without the leave of the House following its submission, except to add Cosponsors having already signed on to the document prior to its submission.
5. Should any piece of legislation submitted to the House Clerk for the reference pursuant to this rule go more than 12 hours without a reference, the Speaker or Speaker pro-tempore may reference the aforementioned in the absence of the House Clerk or his Deputy.
Rule 12 — Debate on House Floor; Amendments.
1. When the Speaker has put a given legislative text, or question, on the agenda for a specific sitting day, the question is before the House on its passage, permitting Representatives to ask for the floor to speak on it.
2. Votes on bills and documents shall be put up at least 24 hours after debate has started.
3. Any member of the House may put forward an amendment to the text, or question being debated. If seconded, the Speaker shall open a vote on the amendment. No legislative text or question may be put up for a final vote before the House if there are outstanding amendments which have been seconded and that are still to be voted upon.
   1. A vote on an amendment may last up to a maximum of 24 hours.
   2. Two or more amendments may be voted upon concurrently, unless they are in conflict. In this case, they shall be voted upon in chronological order.
Rule 13 — Withdrawal.
1. A submitted bill or document may be withdrawn by its author at any time prior to it being put up to a vote.
Rule 14 — Presidential Vetoes.
1. If the President of the United States vetoes a bill, a debate shall be held on the bill and accompanying message on the following sitting day.
2. Votes on passage of the bill, the objections of the President notwithstanding, shall be put up eight hours after debate on the vetoed bill has started.
________________
TITLE III
RELATIONS WITH OTHER INSTITUTIONS AND BODIES
Rule 15 — Transmission of Passed Documents.
   1. The Chair shall, when required, transmit documents passed by the House to the Senate, the President of the United States, or any other institution to which the transmission has been ordered by the House.
________________
TITLE IV
FLOOR PROCEEDINGS
Rule 16 — Parliamentary Term.
      1. The parliamentary term shall run according to the Constitution and any requisite laws binding the operation of Congress as a whole, or the House as a chamber. The House shall be in session every day unless it has adjourned to a later day. Each day where debates or votes can take place is a sitting day.
Rule 17 — Agenda.
      1. The Speaker shall decide on the bills and documents on the agenda for each sitting day. The agenda shall be announced when the Speaker calls the House to order at the beginning of said day.
Rule 18 — Speaker Recognition.
      1. Any Representative wishing to speak on a topic on the agenda may do so by requesting recognition.
      2. Representatives may not speak unless permitted to do so by the Speaker. Upon finishing their speeches, Representatives shall yield the floor.
      3. Representatives may ask questions of another Representative regarding remarks they previously delivered if done so in an otherwise permissible fashion.
      4. The Majority Leader and Minority Leader shall have priority over other Representatives when seeking recognition or rising to a point of order or parliamentary inquiry: Provided, That the Majority Leader shall have priority over the Minority Leader under the provisions of this Clause.
      5. Members may yield their time to another Member.
Rule 19 — Prevention of Obstruction.
      1. The Speaker shall have the power to compel a Representative to yield and to refuse to recognize a Representative or permit them to state a point of order or parliamentary inquiry, when the Representative has, on multiple occasions within the legislative day, used excessive points of order or motions that have resulted in a prolonged and serious obstruction of the business of the House or the rights of Representatives.
      2. This rule shall not prohibit non-dilatory motions to amend, but amendments that strike exceedingly large portions of legislation, cause an opposite effect than that intended by the legislation, or are otherwise in bad faith, and that meet the criteria specified in Section 1 of this rule, may be used by the Speaker as evidence under the provisions of this rule.
      3. The Speaker’s decision under the rule is subject to appeal by the House of Representatives.
Rule 20 — Admittance to the Floor.
      1. No individual who is not a Representative shall be admitted to, or speak on the floor of the House unless they have been otherwise granted permission to do so by the Speaker.
Rule 21 — Mutual Respect.
      1. Speeches shall be addressed to the Speaker, and to no other individual member. No Representative shall directly name another one, except by referring to them by their title, unless necessary for clarity’s sake: Provided, That such reference follows an appropriate reference to the Representative and is in the form: “Mr/Ms ______ of ________”, with appropriate alterations permitted for gender and other titles.
Rule 22 — Non-Compliance: Chamber Removal.
      1. The Speaker shall call to order any Representative who breaches the standards of conduct.
      2. If the breach is repeated, the Speaker shall call the Representative to order a second time.
      3. If the breach continues, or if a further breach is committed, the Representative may be denied the right to speak and may be excluded from the Chamber by the Sergeant-at-Arms on orders of the Speaker or the House for the remainder of the sitting day, or for any time period not longer than 24 hours. In cases of exceptional seriousness, the Speaker may also resort to exclusion of the Representative concerned from the House for the remainder of the sitting immediately and without a second call to order.
      4. The Speaker’s decision under the rule is subject to appeal by the House of Representatives.
      5. The provisions of this Rule may not be suspended, except by two-thirds vote, but not by unanimous consent.
Rule 23 — Non-Compliance: Reprimand and Censure.
      1. In serious cases of breach of these Rules by a Representative, any other Representative may submit a resolution to cause the Representative’s reprimand or censure.
      2. The House will consider no resolution to censure a member of the House not referred to the House by the Committee on the House, Ethics, and Oversight.
      3. The provisions of this Rule may not be suspended, nor via unanimous consent.
Rule 24 — Non-Compliance: Expulsion.
      1. If presented in a valid resolution, the House may consider a resolution expelling a Representative who has repeatedly, by their behavior, degraded its image or committed any serious offense.
      2. A vote on a motion to expel a Representative shall last 24 hours, and the motion shall require a majority of two-thirds of those present and voting to be carried.
      3. The House will consider no resolution to expel a member of the House not referred to the House by the Committee on the House, Ethics, and Oversight.
      4. The provisions of this Rule may not be suspended, nor via unanimous consent.
Rule 25 — Quorum.
      1. A quorum shall always be deemed and assumed as present.
      2. The provisions of this Rule may not be suspended, nor via unanimous consent.
Rule 26 — Voting: Right to Vote.
      1. The right to vote is a personal right. Representatives shall cast their votes individually and in-person.
      2. The provisions of this Rule may not be suspended, nor via unanimous consent.
Rule 27 — Voting: Method and Calculation.
      1. As a general rule, the House shall vote by electronic device.
      2. In calculating whether a vote has carried or failed, account shall be taken only of votes cast for and against, with more votes in favor than against needed for approval. This provision shall not apply in cases where a different requirement for a majority is provided by the Constitution, by rule, or by law.
      3. The Speaker shall establish the result of the vote and announce it.
Rule 28 — Voting: Length.
      1. All votes on bills, resolutions, or other documents in the House have a length of 24 hours.
      2. The vote will be considered void and invalid if:
      1. The Speaker calls the vote early in violation of this Rule.
      2. The Speaker calls the result of a vote early when debate over the legislation in question is still ongoing.
      3. If a vote is considered void and invalid then a revote must take place within 24 hours of the original vote starting.
Rule 29 — Repealed.
[Repealed].
Rule 30 — Points of Order.
      1. Representatives may rise to a point of order in order to draw the attention of the Speaker to any failure to comply with these Rules.
      2. A point of order shall take precedence over all other requests for the floor or procedural motions.
      3. The Speaker shall take an immediate decision on points of order in accordance with the Rules and shall announce it immediately after the point of order has been raised.
Rule 31 — Parliamentary Inquiry.
      1. Representatives may have the floor in order to ask any question pertaining to the Rules of the House and the conduct of debate or voting. The Speaker shall answer such questions rapidly.
Rule 32 — Procedural Motions.
      1. Representatives may have the floor in order to move one of the following motions:
      1. Appeal the ruling of the Chair: if agreed, the appealed decision shall be voided: Provided, That the ruling was not a direct reading of the rules and was up to interpretation.
      2. Motion to Proceed: if agreed, a bill currently on the docket shall be brought to the House floor, where it shall be put to a vote in accordance with Rule 28.
      3. Any other motion otherwise authorized by Rule 42 or by the procedures of the 116th Congress.
      2. Upon being moved, a motion must be seconded by another Representative within twenty minutes or, failing that, be ineligible for consideration at that time.
      3. Representatives may make a motion via unanimous consent, that motion may be objected to within one hour or, failing that, will be considered passed. Unanimous consent may not be used for procedure or passage of a resolution which censures or expels a member, or vacates the office of Speaker, Clerk, or Deputy Clerk. The provisions of this clause may not be suspended, nor via unanimous consent.
      4. Representatives may reserve the right to object to a unanimous consent motion. Motions on which the right to object has been reserved may be debated for no more than half an hour, after which time the Representative shall decide whether to voice their objection or waive it.
      5. If a motion has been seconded, the Speaker shall put up a vote on the motion. This vote shall be called after being up for three hours. The Speaker shall then announce the result of the vote. 
      6. No motion shall be in order to be made between the hours of midnight and 9:00 a.m. eastern time, nor shall any vote be posted during these hours on motions made earlier in the day; provided that the Speaker may, with explicit permission from both the Majority and Minority Leader, allow motions between these hours in cases of exceptional seriousness in accordance with all other rules.
      7. Any motions to amend that have been seconded before a motion to cloture is agreed to shall be put to a vote and no legislation shall be placed to a vote until all amendments on the legislation have been decided. Any amendments proposed after cloture is agreed to shall not be entertained.
      8. No representative shall, for any reason, make a speech on the floor for the purposes of obscuring from view a motion made, preventing objections to a motion that has been made, or for any other purpose that may result in a motion passing without the full House of Representatives being notified.
Rule 33 — Repealed.
[Repealed].
Rule 34 — Adopted Texts.
      1. Texts adopted by the House shall be published immediately after the vote.
________________
TITLE V
STANDING COMMITTEES
Rule 35 — Committees; Refusal to Consider Legislation; Special Rules.
         1. There shall be in the House the following standing committees, each of which shall have the jurisdiction and related functions assigned by this rule. If the Speaker deems it necessary to further review legislation in committee, the Speaker may refer the legislation to the appropriate committee instead of the floor as follows:
         1. The Committee on Ethics and Oversight shall have jurisdiction over the ethics of members of the House, disciplinary actions of members of the House, and overseeing the executive branch such as matters of state, defense, and foreign policy.
         2. The Committee on Rules shall have jurisdiction over all matters relating to the house rules and amendments thereof and special rules and amendments thereof.
         3. The Committee on the Judiciary shall have jurisdiction over all matters relating to the administration of justice in federal courts, administrative bodies, constitutional amendments, impeaching federal officers of the executive and judicial branch, and law enforcement agencies.
         4. The Committee on Education and Youth Welfare shall have jurisdiction over all matters of education including early childhood, K-12, higher education, student financial programs, state and local oversight, and funding programs, and welfare of children and youth including foster care, adoption services, child protection, youth development programs, and juvenile justice reform.
         5. The Committee on General Legislation shall have jurisdiction over all matters of monies, the deficit, the treasury, commerce, labor, economic development, and any other matters not designated as part of another committee's jurisdiction.
         2. All resolutions to censure a Member, expel a Member, vacate the Speaker, vacate the Clerk, vacate the Deputy Clerk, amend the House Rules of Procedure, propose an amendment to the Constitution, or impeach a member of the executive or judicial branch shall be required to be referred to the appropriate committee before being referred to the floor by the Speaker.
         3. The Committee on Rules may, by a majority vote, refer to itself any docketed legislation. All legislation referred under this section must proceed to the floor, but may be subject to a special rule adopted by the committee for the consideration of that matter of business.
         1. Such special rules may include but are not limited to a reduced or lengthened debate time, a reduced or lengthened voting period, hearing protocols, and altered recognition procedures.
         2. In order to enter effect, special rules must be approved by a unanimous vote of the committee.
Rule 36 — Committee Membership.
         1. The committees, except for the Ethics and Oversight Committee and Rules Committee, shall consist of a Chair, Ranking Member, five additional members of the majority, and four additional members of the minority.
         1. The Ethics and Oversight Committee shall consist of a Chair, Ranking Member, two additional members of the majority, and two additional members of the minority.
         2. The Rules Committee shall consist of the Speaker, the Majority Leader, and the Minority Leader.
         2. The Majority Leader shall appoint to the committees the Chair and five members by seeking recognition on the House floor and the Minority Leader shall appoint to the committees the Ranking member and four members by seeking recognition on the House floor.
         3. If, upon 24 hours after the election of a Speaker at the beginning of a new Congress, either the Majority or Minority Leader has not appointed members to a committee, the committee shall convene without the vacant members.
         4. The Majority and Minority Leader shall have the right to remove and replace any member of a Committee and shall do so on the floor upon receiving recognition.
         5. The Chair shall preside over the Committee and call it into session whenever necessary. The Ranking Member shall act on behalf of the Chair should they not be able to fulfill their duties during times when the Committee is in session. If the Chair resigns or is removed from the Committee, the Ranking Member would serve as the Acting Chair until a new Chair is appointed by the Majority Leader.
Rule 37 — Committee Procedure.
         1. Each Committee shall undertake its proceedings as it sees fit: Provided, That Rules 2, 15, 16, 18, 19, 22, 23, 24, 26, 27 and 28 shall apply mutatis mutandis to Committee sessions. The Chair of a Committee shall, during sessions of said Committee, enjoy the prerogative of the Speaker under said Rules. A Committee may adopt Rules pertaining to its proceedings where necessary.
         2. Each committee may conduct at any time such investigations and studies as it considers necessary or appropriate in the exercise of its responsibilities under Rule 35 or as detailed by the Resolution instituting them.
         3. For the purpose of carrying out any of its functions and duties, a Committee is authorized to require, by subpoena or otherwise, the attendance and testimony of such witnesses and the production of such books, records, correspondence, memoranda, papers, and documents as it considers necessary. The Chair of a Committee, or a member designated by them, may administer oaths to witnesses. The Ranking Member of any committee shall have the power to force a hearing on a particular item of business referred to the Committee.
         4. Motions in committees shall not require a second, nor shall a member’s objection be considered in the disposition of any motion. Unanimous consent requests require at least thirty minutes without objection to be considered agreed to. The Committees may provide in their rules prohibitions on unanimous consent for certain motions.
         5. Members of a committee shall not be deprived of the right to vote, make motions, debate motions, or any other activity, regardless of their position as Chair or Ranking Member, whether or not they are presiding.
         6. No member of a committee shall have more than one vote, nor shall any member of a committee be deprived of their right to vote.
         7. The Speaker may, where appropriate, enforce this Title.
         8. In the event that a Committee fails to refer, table, or otherwise act upon a measure referred to it within a reasonable time as defined by section 9, the Speaker may invoke the following powers:
         1. Set a deadline for the Committee to report the measure to the House or table it;
         2. Refer the matter to another Committee provided no Committee objects within 24 hours;
         3. Make a privileged motion to refer or table the measure.
         9. A Committee shall be deemed inactive with respect to a measure under its jurisdiction if it fails to:
         1. Refer or table the measure within 3 days of its referral to the Committee;
         2. Hold a hearing on the measure within 3 days of its referral to the Committee; or
         3. Communicate a justification for the delay as supported by a majority of the Committee’s members within 3 days (the communicated delay to then last a further 3 days until declaration of inactivity).
________________
TITLE VI
AMENDMENTS TO THE RULES OF PROCEDURE
Rule 38 — Amendments to the Rules.
            1. Representatives may propose amendments to these Rules. Such amendment shall take the form of a House Resolution.
            2. Unless otherwise specified, amendments to these Rules shall enter into force on the first sitting day following that of their adoption.
            3. No provisions of Rule 38 shall be suspended, nor shall the provisions of this rule be waived by unanimous consent.
________________
TITLE VII
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Rule 39 — Unfinished Business.
               1. At the end of the last sitting day before the end of a session, the House's unfinished business shall not be deemed to have lapsed, but shall continue to the next session.
Rule 40 — Corrigendum.
               1. If an error is identified in a document adopted by the House, the Speaker shall, where appropriate, submit a draft corrigendum to the House.
               2. The corrigendum shall be announced on the following sitting day. It shall be deemed to have been approved unless, not later than 24 hours after its announcement, a request is made by any two Representatives that it be put to a vote.
               3. Approved corrigenda shall be published in the same way as the document to which they refer.
Rule 41 — Rules When Not Otherwise Specified.
               1. When not otherwise specified by the House of Representatives, otherwise in common practice, absent a call for the regular order, or agreed to be temporarily suspended by a two-thirds (⅔) majority of the House, the Rules of the 116th Congress shall be in full force and effect on all procedural matters of the House of Representatives. Should these rules or the rules of the 116th Congress be silent on a matter, the body will refer to ‘House Rules, Constitution, and Jefferson’s Manual for the 116th Congress’ and, failing that, the 2017 series of ‘Precedents of the U.S. House of Representatives.’
Rule 42 — Construction of the Rules.
               1. The Standing Rules of the House of Representatives shall be in force from session to session.
               2. When not otherwise specified by the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives as herein contained, the rules may be suspended by two-thirds vote.
               3. The provisions of this Rule may not be suspended, nor via unanimous consent.
Rule 43 — Removal of the Speaker.
               1. Notwithstanding any other Rule, upon a favorable recommendation by the Ethics and Oversight Committee of a resolution to vacate the office of Speaker which was docketed by a Member of the House and subsequently referred to the committee by orders of the Chair of the committee thereof, such resolution shall be up for debate on the following sitting day for a period of twenty-four hours, followed by a period of twenty-four hours for voting. The office of Speaker may only be vacated upon the passage of a resolution following the specified procedure having been agreed to by a majority of those present having voted in favor: Provided, That “those present” includes Members abstaining on the question
               2. If the Speaker does not open debate within thirty-six hours of the favorable recommendation pursuant to this Rule by reason of failure, neglect, refusal, or any other reason, the office of Speaker shall be declared vacant. The Clerk and Sergeant-At-Arms shall, together, enforce this provision.
               3. The provisions of this Rule may not be suspended, except by two-thirds vote, but not by unanimous consent.
Rule 44 — Further Rules Regarding the Committee on Ethics and Oversight.
               1. The Committee on Ethics and Oversight, in any of its proceedings, shall not consider or admit evidence that is rumor, hearsay, or speculative.
               2. The Committee on Ethics and Oversight shall not investigate any matter, which, if it should constitute a crime, would have exceeded the statute of limitations under the laws of the United States, nor shall the Committee on Ethics and Oversight investigate any matter pending before a court of law, unless the Chair and the Ranking Member certify in writing, under penalty of perjury, to the Speaker that such an investigation is conducted in good faith and will not interrupt, obstruct, or detain the proceedings of that court, and such a statement shall be filed to the Office of the Clerk.
               3. Any member of the Committee on Ethics and Oversight shall, upon voting in favor of the commencement of an investigation or an inquiry, and such investigation having been agreed to, certify in writing or verbally to the Speaker of the House under penalty of perjury that the investigation is in good faith, and free of political or unauthorized motivations, and that there is sufficient evidence to cause the commencement of an investigation, and any such certification shall be recorded and filed in the Office of the Clerk.
               4. The Chair, or the Speaker if they deem it appropriate to do so, may enforce the provisions of this Rule.
Rule 45 — House Awards and Honors.
               1. The Speaker of the House may award distinguished individuals the Golden Gavel Award.
               1. The Speaker pro tempore, Acting Speaker, or any other person may not award the Golden Gavel Award.
               2. The Golden Gavel Award shall consist of a replica of the House Gavel in gold fashion and a pin in the form of the golden gavel.
               3. The award shall be paid for by the Office of the Speaker.
               4. Any person awarded the Golden Gavel Award must meet one of the following requirements:
               1. Be a former Speaker;
               2. Be a former Speaker pro tempore;
               3. Be a former Presiding Officer;
               4. Be a former Clerk;
               5. Be a former Deputy Clerk;
               6. Committed a heroic act on behalf or for the House of Representatives.
               5. The Speaker shall not give themself the Golden Gavel Award.
               6. A person shall hold the award for life unless a simple majority vote of the House revokes it.
               2. The immediate past Speaker, should they remain a member of the House at the next gathering of Congress shall enjoy the title “Deputy Speaker pro tempore”.
               1. Should a Speaker be re-elected to serve as Speaker of the House, no member shall enjoy the title Deputy Speaker pro tempore.
               3. Any former Speakers of the House that are currently serving in the House shall enjoy the title “Speaker emeritus”.


________________