Last updated: December 7, 2024




Rule 1
	This is a PG-13 server, in keeping with Discord Community Guidelines.
	Individuals must abide by relevant local and international laws with respect to content transmitted.


Sexual, gore and shock content are strictly prohibited, including content deemed to be suggestive, violent, or designed to be offensive or disturbing respectively. This includes non-consensual messages of this nature in direct messages.


Penalties for violating this rule extend up to and including a permanent ban.
	

Punishment
	3 hours; 2 month ban for major violations
	





Rule 2
	Do not use discriminatory or derogatory language.
	Promotion of white supremacy, xenophobia, genocide denial, racism, sexism, disablism, fascism, neo-nazism, inceldom, or other discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity is included under this rule.


This includes political opinions in direct messages even if all parties to the conversation are comfortable, if such messages: (1) allege a group of people are inferior for their inherent traits; (2) are directed towards or levying unfair accusations against any figure on a discriminatory basis; (3) contain any slurs or other vitriol; or (4) are used in a deliberate attempt to subvert regulations against any of the above.


Reasonable discretion should be exercised on what is clearly satirical. However, individuals should take care to avoid making jokes that have the potential to make others uncomfortable.


Penalties for violating this rule extend up to and including a permanent ban. Targeting and harassing individuals in a discriminatory manner is impermissible under any circumstances and will result in a permanent ban. Staff are expected to exercise discretion and respond in a measured manner for milder cases where individuals can be reasonably understood to act in good faith.
	

Punishment
	2 hours; additional 2 hours for every subsequent rulebreak
	





Rule 3
	Do not harass or discriminate against any user. This includes collecting or distributing unauthorized recordings of others’ voice or body.
	Harassment includes repetitive intentional annoyance. If someone asks to stop, you should do so. Those collecting or posting recordings of others should have prior permission, implicit or explicit. Do not post any individual's personal information without permission.


Penalties for violating this rule extend up to and including a permanent ban.
	

Punishment
	2 hours for minor violations; 6 hours for major violations; permanent ban for repeated offenses or severe misconduct that demonstrates grossly unbecoming behavior.
	





Rule 4
	Do not spam or flood the chat.
	Staff will typically ask the user to stop such spam before any consequences are applied. A factor in consideration should be whether messages disrupt the flow of the chat. Messages should be sent in their appropriate channels.


#venting should be used in a respectful and responsible manner, and individuals not doing so will be removed from the channel.


Bank and other commands should not be posted in #virtual-congress-chat in a disruptive manner, but will not be penalized unless clear instructions against doing so have been issued.


Penalties for violating this rule typically extend to mute of 30 minutes, but instances of abuse may be punishable by mute of up to 72 hours. Staff will strive to avoid issuing penalties, instead making clear that actions in violation of this rule should be avoided.
	

Punishment
	30 minutes; additional 1 hour for every subsequent violation
	





Rule 5
	Do not ghost ping or mass ping.
	Ghost pinging is defined as deleting a ping after sending it. Mass pinging is defined as either pinging a large number of users, or repeatedly pinging users. Both variants are punishable if the individual(s) being pinged raises an issue with it.


Penalties for violating this rule typically extend to mute of 30 minutes, but instances of abuse may be punishable by mute of up to 72 hours. Staff will strive to avoid issuing penalties, instead making clear that actions in violation of this rule should be avoided.
	

Punishment
	30 minutes; 24 hours for continued or severe abuse
	





Rule 6
	Do not commit or participate in election fraud.
	Election fraud includes but is not limited to:
1. inviting users to the server with the primary intent of recruiting voters;
2. fraud pertaining to member-wide polls on the operations of the server; and
3. non-roleplay intentional spread of false information to influence the result of an election.


The Federal Election Commission has the authority to take corrective action, including voter and candidate disqualification, non-roleplay-based negative modifiers and voiding of an election. The Federal Election Commission may issue recommendations for further penalties up to and including a permanent ban.
	

Punishment
	Ban from participating in elections for 4 months
	





Rule 7
	Do not hack the server or its users.
	Don’t raid the server. Don't send or link harmful or malicious software and systems which may result in undue damage to others, including viruses and IP grabbers.


It is strictly against the rules to gain access to someone else’s account without express permission. At the same time, individuals are expected to take reasonable actions to secure and protect their Discord account from malicious users.


Penalties for violating this rule extend up to and including a permanent ban. 


It is impermissible to obtain or exploit unauthorized access to channels or other Discord permissions, but staff should exercise discretion when addressing these violations particularly in cases resulting from staff error or without malice.


It is strictly against the rules to retain permissions to an asset of Virtual Congress without the authority to do so, and penalties may extend up to and including a permanent ban.
	

Punishment
	Permanent ban; subject to appeal
	





Rule 8
	Do not penalty evade or use multiple accounts simultaneously on the server.
	Penalty evading is a deliberate attempt to avoid a penalty, such as a mute or ban, by leaving and rejoining the server. Cases where an individual rejoins after their penalty has lapsed do not constitute penalty evasion.


Individuals not subject to ongoing penalties may leave the server and rejoin on a new account at a later date. However, individuals with ongoing negative modifiers must self-report details regarding their previous and current accounts to the Federal Election Commission.


Deliberate violations of this rule will result in a permanent ban under any circumstances. Staff may exercise discretion and allow individuals violating this rule out of genuine ignorance to only be subject to their previous penalties.
	

Punishment
	6 month ban for first offense; permanent ban for second attempt
	





Rule 9
	Do not lie to staff.
	This exclusively applies to matters relating to moderation on the server. Reporting of rule violations should be in good faith, without deliberately using alleged violations to blackmail or otherwise threaten others.


Penalties for violating this rule extend up to and including a permanent ban.
	

Punishment
	30 minutes for minor violations; 4 hours for major violations; permanent ban for severe violations
	





Rule 10
	Do not misrepresent yourself or others within the server.
	Changing one's profile picture or name in purposeful imitation of other users is not allowed. This excludes cases where the user in question has provided explicit or implicit permission, and where the change is clearly satirical in nature for a reasonable period.


Staff will advise individuals violating this rule not to do so, but may indefinitely mute individuals until they are in compliance with this rule.
	

Punishment
	Canada until profile/violation is changed; 2 month ban for severe violations
	





Rule 11
	Do not use information in roleplay that is gained outside of roleplay means.
	Your character may not use information that they would not otherwise canonically have had access to, including communication in non-roleplay channels (including non-roleplay-related direct messages and non-roleplay-related voice calls).


Your character may not take actions that they would not otherwise have reasonably taken as a result of the information that they had in roleplay, including non-roleplay grievances.


Players may not leak information about roleplay in non-roleplay channels, unless reporting a rules violation. All individuals are to refrain from harassing others in response to actions within roleplay.


Under no circumstances are staff permitted to use non-public information to advantage their character in roleplay.


Avoid sending non-roleplay messages in roleplay channels to the greatest reasonable extent. When such non-roleplay messages must be sent, they should be clearly labeled so.


Roleplay disputes should be resolved in roleplay to the greatest reasonable extent. Individuals may not gather information or coordinate in non-roleplay channels for roleplay purposes.
	

Punishment
	48 hours; retcon, if necessary
	





Rule 12
	Do not manipulate your character to gain an unfair advantage in roleplay.
	Simply making a claim does not make such a claim true. Individuals may not perform actions with their characters that their respective characters would not have been capable of performing.


Individuals may not control any characters other than their own, unless otherwise authorized.


Instances will be retconned at the discretion of administrators and moderators.
	

Punishment
	Retcon; 4 hours for continued violations
	





Rule 13
	Do not be a troll or be toxic.
	Self-explanatory. Penalties may vary from mutes to bans, depending on severity, repetition, credible commitments to refrain in future and contribution to server. Administrators and moderators will take into account the circumstances that individuals may be genuinely or perceive themselves to be in. 


A mutually-toxic discussion between members of staff of similar rank, or members of the community, in which escalation and participation in the discussion are similar between the participating parties shall not be subject to a greater punishment than a 30-minute mute under this rule.
	

Punishment
	2 hours for minor violations and additional 2 hours for further minor violations; 12 hours for major violations; permanent ban for severe violations
	





Rule 14
	No Server Advertising
	Promoting other Discord servers without Admin approval is strictly prohibited, either in the server or to server members in DMs, and will result in a punishment up to, and including, a ban. Server partnerships are allowed with permission from the Partnership Team.
	

Punishment
	New person joining the server for the sole purpose of advertising is a perm ban; Unauthorized or accidental advertising from a server member is a 6 hour Canada.