________________




STANDING RULES OF THE UNITED STATES SENATE


________________


Effective September 27th, 2024
Authored by Senators Loulou, Graves, Romerio, Ian, and Schlorp
Revised by Senators Deb, Clark, Noah, Threes, and Long.
________________
RULE I — PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE AND OATHS.        3
RULE II — BUSINESS AND REFERRAL OF LEGISLATION.        3
RULE III — LEGISLATIVE PROCEDURE AND MOTIONS.        4
RULE IV — VOTING PROCEDURE.        6
RULE V — HEARINGS.        7
RULE VI — QUESTIONS OF ORDER.        7
RULE VII — SUSPENSION, RULE AMENDMENTS, AND UNANIMOUS CONSENT.        8
RULE VIII — QUORUM.        9
RULE IX — SECRETARY OF THE SENATE.        10
RULE X — SENATE COMMITTEES.        10
RULE XI — IMPEACHMENT PROCEEDINGS.        12
Subsection I - Reading of Articles, Procedure Thereof;        12
Subsection II - Basic Procedure        12
Subsection III - Summons        13
Subsection IV - Day One        14
Subsection V - Day 2-6        14
Subsection VI - Day Seven, Final Vote        15
RULE XII — SECRET SESSIONS.        15
RULE XIII — OTHER PROVISIONS.        15
________________
RULE I — PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE AND OATHS.
1. In the absence of the Vice President, the Senate shall choose a President pro tempore, who shall hold the office and execute the duties thereof during the pleasure of the Senate and until another is elected or his term of office as Senator expires.


2. In the absence of the Vice President, and pending the election of a President pro tempore, the Secretary of the Senate, or in his absence the Deputy Secretary, shall perform the duties of the Chair.


3. The Senate shall elect a President pro tempore at the commencement of each Congress by live roll call vote following the swearing-in of Senators-elect, ascertainment of a quorum, and determination of caucus for each Senator. Each Senator shall be permitted to vote for any Senator with no option to abstain over a period of 24 hours or until all have voted.

4. The Vice President, in their role as President of the Senate, may have their ability to preside over the Senate stripped for a duration of time lasting no longer than remainder of the congressional term upon a properly presented motion to vacate the chair signed by 1/3rd of all sitting Senators, and the concurrence of a simple majority of the Senate. 

5. The President Pro Tempore may not be removed, except by a suspension of the rules motion, and 2/3rds concurrence of the Senate.


   6. The President pro tempore shall have the right to name in open Senate or in writing no more than two Senators to perform the duties of the Chair, and the Senator so named shall have the right to name in open session a Senator to perform the duties of the Chair.


   7. The Majority Leader and Minority Leader shall have the right to jointly name in open Senate a Senator to perform the duties of the Chair if there is no person performing the duties of the Chair.


   8. The oaths or affirmations required by the Constitution and prescribed by law shall be taken and subscribed by each Senator, in open Senate, before entering upon his duties.
"I, A___ B___, do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support and defend the Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties of the office on which I am about to enter. (So help me God)."
RULE II — BUSINESS AND REFERRAL OF LEGISLATION.
   1. At a time each day decided by the Majority Leader, the Majority Leader shall put forth to the floor of the Senate business pursuant to Rule X(d), of which there shall be no greater than five per referral.


   2. Debate on all business shall last for 24 hours, or until an 8-hour covered period has elapsed where no debate or motion has taken place on the floor of the Senate. 
   1. Any Senator may invoke cloture via a proper motion, or via unanimous consent so long as senators are informed of the pending request thereof at least one hour prior to the passage thereof by the presiding officer or the Senator making the request.
   1. Votes to invoke cloture shall not be in order if 8 hours or less remain in the original time for debate. All votes to invoke cloture shall last for 12 hours or, until the number of Senators who have not voted will not alter the success or failure of the motion, or the period for debate of the piece of business has concluded.
   2. For debatable motions, the same shall apply, except the original debate period shall be 3 hours, and the covered period shall be 1 hour.
   3. If cloture is invoked on an underlying proposal while other motions relating to that proposal are pending, the presiding officer shall forthwith put the questions in order of precedence, and no new motions on the underlying proposal shall be in order during the time in which the motions are disposed of. After each motion is disposed of, the question on the next in order of precedence shall forthwith be put, and these proceedings shall be without debate.


   3. The Senate shall adjourn via majority vote, unanimous consent request, or pursuant to requisite law. The Senate shall be reconvened for a new session by the Vice President or other persons authorized to open the Senate on the twelfth day of the month.

   4. The Vice President, in their role as President of the Senate, shall not be able to contribute to the debate of the Senate, nor address the senate unless by: Any provision of the Rules of the Senate, or applicable provision of law; A previous order of the Senate; Or the consent of the Majority Leader. 
      1. This provision shall also extend to any other person who is not a sitting member of the Senate, unless otherwise provided.
RULE III — LEGISLATIVE PROCEDURE AND MOTIONS.
      1. Any bill from the current Congress may be submitted to the docket by any Senator.
      1. Bills from the previous Congress may be submitted to the docket by any Senator only if they have been passed by the House of Representatives or introduced to the docket during the previous Congress a maximum of 5 days before the conclusion of that term.


      2. Any bill in the docket must have been numbered by the Secretary of the Senate or Clerk of the house, and it shall be only be referred to by its title, short title, or reference assigned.


      3. Upon the docketing of a bill, it shall lay in the docket until the Majority Leader refers the bill to the floor and ask that debate be opened on it.


      4. A motion to proceed, upon being moved, will be put up for a vote and shall require a majority of Senators duly chosen and sworn to be carried in the affirmative.


      5. Any Amendment shall be submitted in writing, and once moved and seconded will be submitted to the Senate.


      6. A motion to reconsider a vote not yet reconsidered, notwithstanding any cloture votes, upon being moved by a member of the majority side, shall be put up for a vote on the matter to be reconsidered, and no more reconsiderations shall be allowed.


      7. The following motions are in order:
      1. To adjourn.
      2. To adjourn to a day certain, or that when the Senate adjourn it shall be to a day certain.
      3. To take a recess.
      4. To proceed to the consideration of executive business.
      5. To lay on the table.
      6. To postpone indefinitely.
      7. To postpone to a day certain.
      8. To commit.
      9. To amend.
      10. To vacate the chair, as provided by Rule I(d)


Which several motions shall have precedence as they stand arranged; and the motions relating
        to adjournment, to take a recess, to proceed to the consideration of executive business, and to
        lay on the table, shall be decided without debate.


      8. Any motion, amendment, or resolution may be withdrawn or modified by the mover at any time before a decision, amendment, or ordering of the yeas and nays, except a motion to reconsider, which shall not be withdrawn without leave.


      9. If the question in debate contains several propositions, any Senator may have the same divided, except a motion to strike out and insert, which shall not be divided; but the rejection of a motion to strike out and insert one proposition shall not prevent a motion to strike out and insert a different proposition; nor shall it prevent a motion simply to strike out; nor shall the rejection of a motion to strike out prevent a motion to strike out and insert. But pending a motion to strike out and insert, the part to be stricken out and the part to be inserted shall each be regarded for the purpose of amendment as a question, and motions to amend the part to be stricken out shall have precedence.


      10. Before any unanimous consent request to pass a bill, resolution, or other legislation, there shall be a live quorum call. This rule may not be suspended, nor may it be waived by unanimous consent.

      11. All unanimous consent requests to agree to the final passage of business shall require senators to be informed of the pending request thereof at least one hour prior to the passage thereof by the presiding officer or the Senator making the request.


         12. Proposed amendments to a bill undergoing a floor vote on final passage shall not be in order. 


         13. No identical motions, in the opinion of the Chair, shall be raised by any Senator more than twice within a twenty-four hour period.
RULE IV — VOTING PROCEDURE.
         1. Votes shall, by default, be carried out by approaching the desk of the Secretary of the Senate, where Senators shall assent, dissent, or abstain from a vote on a question. Votes may also be carried out via electronic device.


         2. The Presiding Officer, or the Majority and Minority Leaders acting jointly, may put a question via live roll-call vote, in which the Secretary of the Senate or his designee, or, in their absence, the Presiding Officer, shall call the roll of Senators alphabetically, and record the responses of Senators thereto.


         3. No vote shall be called before 24 hours have elapsed unless all Senators have voted.


         4. More votes in favor than in opposition shall be considered sufficient to constitute a simple majority: Provided, That the requirements of this Rule have been met.


         5. The Presiding Officer shall clearly mark the end of every vote, and no Senator shall be permitted to vote after the decision shall have been announced by the Presiding Officer, but may for sufficient reasons, with unanimous consent, change or withdraw his vote. No motion to suspend this rule shall be in order, nor shall the Presiding Officer entertain any request to suspend it by unanimous consent.


         6. No Senator may record a vote by proxy. 
         7. (i) All cases of the resolution of votes as ties and the subsequent tie-breaks shall be recorded in the journal of the Senate. (ii) In all cases except motions in trials of impeachment of the President of the United States or of the Vice President of the United States, when a vote needing a majority of one half of all Senators voting plus one to pass is resolved as a tie, the Vice President shall break the tie by casting one vote either in the affirmative or in the negative. However, if the office of the Vice President is vacant at the time of the resolution of the vote as a tie, the vote shall be finally resolved in the negative. (iii) In all cases involving motions in trials of impeachment of the President of the United States or of the Vice President of the United States, when a vote needing a majority of one half of all Senators voting plus one to pass is resolved as a tie, the presiding officer of the impeachment trial shall break the tie by casting one vote either in the affirmative or in the negative; except, when a motion to disqualify is presented after a conviction in an impeachment trial, there shall be no possibility of tie-breaking, and such a tied vote shall be resolved in the negative. (iv) In cases involving motions needing a majority at a threshold either higher or lower than one-half of all Senators voting plus one to pass, when such a vote is resolved as a tie, there is no possibility of tie-breaking.
RULE V — HEARINGS.
         1. Any questioning or hearing for a Senate nomination must be open for a minimum time of twenty-four hours; no hearing shall be ended until a majority of Senators have voted to close the hearing. After the hearing has ended, the nomination shall be referred to the floor for debate. The debate shall last no less than 24 hours. If an 8-hour covered period with no debate occurs, the question of passage of the nomination shall be put after the conclusion of the 24-hour original debate period. Should a new covered period commence during another, the covered time shall remain 8 hours after the conclusion of the latter debate.


         2. A non-Senator may address the Senate by invitation of the Presiding Officer, or by motion. Any invitation to a non-Senator to address the Senate shall not have force or effect unless, the question “Shall the non-Senator be permitted to address the Senate?” be carried in the affirmative by a majority of the Senate, which shall decide such question without debate. 
         1. Invitations require specification as to the nature of the invitation, whether it be testimony, sworn or otherwise, a prepared statement, or an open discussion with the Senators. 


         3. Any hearing that is not for a nomination may cease by unanimous consent, or a declaration by the Chair that the hearing has ceased, but the demand of any Senator to reopen the hearing shall cause the hearing to be reopened.


         4. Before delivering sworn testimony, a witness will be asked by the Presiding Officer:


“Do you solemnly swear (or affirm) under bounty of perjury, that before the Senate at-large, within this hearing, you shall tell the truth, nothing but the truth, and only the truth, to the best of your knowledge, information, and belief(, so help you God)?”.
RULE VI — QUESTIONS OF ORDER.
         1. A question of order may be raised at any stage of the proceedings, and, shall be decided by the Presiding Officer without debate, subject to an appeal to the Senate.


         2. When an appeal is taken, any subsequent question of order which may arise before the decision of such appeal shall be decided by the Presiding Officer without debate; and every appeal therefrom shall be decided at once, and without debate; and any appeal may be laid on the table without prejudice to the pending proposition, and thereupon shall be held as affirming the decision of the Presiding Officer by a simple majority.


         3. The Presiding Officer may submit any question of order for the decision of the Senate.

         4. The chair shall not be permitted to ignore the proper procedure of the Senate. 


            5. Any speech made by the presiding officer excluding a ruling on questions of order shall be considered improper without the consent of the Majority Leader or the Senate-at-Large. 
RULE VII — SUSPENSION, RULE AMENDMENTS, AND UNANIMOUS CONSENT.
            1. The Rules of the Senate shall not be suspended but by the consent of two-thirds of all Senators present and voting. 
            1.  No unanimous consent shall be in order for the suspension of the rules


            2. Amendments to the Rules of the Senate shall be debated for no less than twenty-four hours.


            3. Any Senator shall reserve the right to ask unanimous consent at any time, with no limitations on what may be requested via unanimous consent, unless such request would violate the Constitution, Federal Law, or any other restriction set by the Rules of the Senate.


            4. Except where otherwise provided by this Rule, Senators shall have one hour to object to a unanimous consent request since it was raised. If no objection is raised after one hour, the request shall be considered to have unanimous consent from the Senate.


            5. Unanimous consent requests raised from the hours of 11 o’clock in the evening, Eastern Time to eight o’clock in the morning, Eastern Time shall remain open to objections until nine o’clock in the morning that same day.


            6. No identical unanimous consent requests, in the opinion of the Chair, shall be raised by any Senator more than twice within a twenty-four hour period.


            7. Unanimous consent requests shall not contain speeches, nor be cloaked within a general speech for the purposes of depriving the Senate from being able to clearly understand the intent of the request.
            1. Unanimous consent requests shall be allowed at the conclusion of a speech.
            2. This subsection shall not be construed so as to prohibit speeches occurring alongside unanimous consent requests that serve the sole purpose of providing context, explanation, and reasoning to the unanimous consent request, no matter the objective veracity of such speech.
RULE VIII — QUORUM.
            1. A quorum shall consist of a simple majority of the Senators duly chosen and sworn. A quorum shall be presumed to be present unless otherwise indicated. The Senate may take no action until a quorum of Senators has registered their presence in a live quorum call, which shall take place at the beginning of any new Congress or session of Congress.


            2. If at any time during the session of the Senate, a question shall be raised by any Senator as to the presence of a quorum, the Presiding Officer shall call the roll and shall announce the result, and these proceedings shall be without debate.
            1. A routine quorum call shall take place over a 12-hour period, and quorum calls, by default, shall be routine quorum calls. A live quorum call shall only take place until a quorum of Senators has registered their presence, or 2 hours, whichever is shorter. A routine quorum call may be converted to a live quorum call by the Majority Leader or Presiding Officer. Unanimous consent requests to dispense with proceedings of a routine quorum call may be agreed to within one minute. No unanimous consent request is in order after a live quorum call has commenced. Debate on, and referral of legislation may continue whilst awaiting a quorum to be declared present, however votes may not be taken.


            3. All votes shall require a quorum of Members to be present in order to be valid. The Senate may fix the time to which to adjourn, recess, rise, or request or compel the attendance of absent Members if a Quorum Call or vote discloses the absence of a quorum.
            1. After the attendance of sufficient Members has been ascertained, either by quorum call or by sufficient answers to a vote, the Senate shall reconsider without debate any vote failed due to lack of a quorum.


            4. If a Senator fails to participate in ten or more votes throughout a Congress, or ten consecutive votes over a period of time greater than twenty-four hours, or a clear violation of the oath they have taken, they may be the subject of a motion for expulsion.


            5. At the time that a resolution to expel a Senator, which shall require at least one cosponsor, is docketed, the Senate shall forthwith begin consideration of the resolution. The Senator shall have a hearing before the whole Senate to justify himself against the charges brought against him; a motion to close the hearing shall only be in order after twenty-four hours have passed.


            6. Upon the conclusion of the hearing, the question shall be put “Is it the Sense of the Senate that the Senator be expelled?”, which shall require two-thirds of Senators to be carried in the affirmative.


            7. No motion to expel based upon the political speech of its subject, or based on bills or resolutions proposed by the subject to the Senate, shall be entertained.
RULE IX — SECRETARY OF THE SENATE.
            1. There shall be a Secretary of the Senate as an Officer of the Senate, which shall be nominated by the Senate Majority Leader at the beginning of each session following the determination of caucuses. The nomination must be approved by a simple majority vote in the Senate, and these proceedings shall be without debate.


            2. The Secretary of the Senate shall provide a reference for all legislation, or other documents, as appropriate, submitted to the Senate.


            3. The Secretary of the Senate shall nominate one Deputy Secretary of the Senate who shall be vested with all the powers of the Secretary of the Senate in his absence, and such nomination shall require a simple majority of Senators to be approved, and these proceedings shall be without debate.


            4. The Deputy Secretary of the Senate shall serve at the discretion of the Secretary of the Senate.
RULE X — SENATE COMMITTEES.
            1. Each committee shall consist of a Chair and two members appointed by the Majority Leader and a Ranking Member and one member appointed by the Minority Leader.

            2. The committees shall be empowered to compel and invite witnesses, subpoena persons or evidence, submit reports to the Senate, and to decide their rules of procedure.

            3. The following standing committees shall be appointed at the commencement of each Congress, and shall continue and have the power to act until their successors are appointed, with leave to report by bill or otherwise on matters within their respective jurisdictions:
               1. Committee on Relations, to which may be referred all matters relating primarily to the following subjects:
               1. The Department of State, Defense, and Homeland Security, including all nominations of military officials.
               2. The military in its operations, research, development, and providing of the common defense; national security; intelligence activities and programs of the United States.
               3. The Senate, House, or the Congress as a whole; federal elections; presidential succession.
               4. The Government Printing Office.
               5. Relations of the United States with foreign countries; diplomatic service; foreign assistance and loans, including all nominations of foreign service and diplomatic officers of the United States.
               6. International activities relations to the Red Cross; international law; international organizations.
               7. Declarations of war; treaties; executive agreements.
               8. The boundaries of the United States and the border generally.

                  2. Committee on the Judiciary, to which may be referred all matters relating primarily to the following subjects:
                  1. The Judicial branch generally, including nominations to the Department of Justice, judges and justices.
                  2. Constitutional amendments and interstate compacts generally.
                  3. Holidays and celebrations.
                  4. Immigration and naturalization.
                  5. Patents, copyrights, and trademarks.
                  6. Revision and codification of the statues of the United States.
                  7. State and territorial boundary lines; territories generally.

                     3. Committee on the General Welfare, to which may be referred all matters relating primarily to the following subjects:
                     1. Appropriation of the revenue for the support of the government.
                     2. Banks, banking, and financial institutions; deposit insurance; economic stabilization generally; exports and export control; federal monetary policy and the Federal Reserve System; financial aid; United States currency generally; interstate commerce generally.
                     3. Budgets.
                     4. Nominations except as provided in this rule.
                     5. Matters which are not under the jurisdiction of another committee.

                        4. Before being referred to the floor for debate by the Majority Leader, all matters shall be referred to their appropriate committee or to the floor of the Senate by the Majority Leader at their discretion upon being received in the docket unless by a proper motion or unanimous consent request that assigns the matter to a committee or to the floor of the senate respectively.

                        5. Upon a nomination being received from the President of the United States by the Senate, the appropriate committee shall hold a hearing on the nominee for a minimum of 24 hours. Upon the conclusion of the hearing, the committee shall vote on whether to recommend the nominee to the Senate at-large. If the nomination is recommended favorably by the committee, the Majority Leader may refer it for consideration by the Senate at-large.
                           1. The Senate shall at all times retain the right to discharge nominations from committees and to move to proceed on nominations.
RULE XI — IMPEACHMENT PROCEEDINGS.
Subsection I - Reading of Articles, Procedure Thereof;
                           1. Whenever the House of Representatives impeaches an officer of the United States pursuant to the Constitution, the Speaker of the House shall communicate to the President pro tempore of the Senate a certified copy of such resolution, and the Secretary shall read the resolution before the Senate.


                           2. The President pro tempore shall set the time and date for the beginning of the sitting as a Court of Impeachment.


                           3. When the President of the United States or when the Vice President of the United States shall be the officer impeached, the President pro tempore shall notify the Chief Justice of the requirement of their presence.
                           1. The Presiding Officer shall administer the oath of impeachment to the Chief Justice, and then the Chief Justice shall preside.
                           4. If the office of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States is vacant at the time of the receipt of the articles of impeachment by the Senate; or if the Senate determines, by a vote of two-thirds of all Senators duly sworn, that the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States is incapable of presiding over an impeachment trial over which he or she is otherwise required to preside pursuant to the Constitution, Federal law, or Senate rules, then the longest-serving Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States shall preside, but if there are multiple Associate Justices who have tied to be longest-serving, then the eldest justice of those Associate Justices who have tied as longest-serving shall preside.
Subsection II - Basic Procedure
                           1. All writs, subpoenas, orders, mandates, and judgements ordered by the Senate shall be issued under the signature of the Presiding Officer and countersigned by a Senator present.
                           1. The Senate shall have the power the compel the attendance of witnesses by subpoena with a majority of Senators voting in favor; shall further have the power to issue orders and mandates with a majority of Senators voting in favor; and the Presiding Officer, shall have the right to use whatever aid and assistance they may need to enforce the will of the Senate.


                           2. The Presiding Officer shall be responsible for the organization, preparation, direction, and execution of all items during proceedings.


                           3. The Presiding Officer shall rule on all questions on the relevancy, eligibility, admissibility and legitimacy of all evidence and questions; and such ruling shall act as if it were the decision of the Senate; unless a Senator rises and objects, in such cases, the question shall be put to the Senate, who shall decide it by a majority of Senators sworn, present, and voting in favor and without debate.


                           4. For each sitting of the Court of Impeachment, should all business be concluded before the time of the conclusion of the sitting, the Court of Impeachment shall adjourn; but should either the lead manager or the accused officer or the attorney they may designate object, the sitting shall resume.


                           5. At any time, the Senate may close its doors by a motion pursuant to Rule XII; and permit only the managers, the accused officer or the attorney they may designate, the Secretary of the Senate and their deputy, the Presiding Officer, and the Senators to be present; for all actions taken during such time, a transcript shall be drafted and submitted to the President pro tempore, who shall guard it; and no Senator or other person present shall publicly speak about actions taken or speeches made during all times when the doors were closed.


                           6. All motions made not conformant with those explained herein, or motions objected to and requiring a vote shall be argued within ten minutes.


                           7. No motion to reconsider shall be in order for any vote during the Court of Impeachment.
Subsection III - Summons
                           1. Upon the reading of the articles of impeachment, the Presiding Officer shall communicate to the accused officer a copy of the resolution impeaching them and a writ of summons with the date and place of the first meeting of the Senate as a Court of Impeachment, for them, or any attorney they may designate to attend.
Subsection IV - Day One
                           1. On the first day as a Court of Impeachment, the Secretary of the Senate, or the Presiding Officer in their absence, shall read the following proclamation before the Senate: “All persons are commanded to keep silence, on pain of imprisonment, while the House of Representatives is exhibiting to the Senate of the United States articles of impeachment against {Name}, {Office}.” The Lead Manager shall then read the articles of impeachment before the Senate.


                           2. After the reading of such articles, the Presiding Officer shall administer the following oath for a period of twenty-four hours: “Do you solemnly swear (or affirm) that in all things appertaining to the trial of the impeachment of {Name}, {Office}, now pending, you will do impartial justice according to the Constitution and laws? (So help you God?)”. Senators shall respond with “I do”.
Subsection V - Day 2-6
                           1. On the second day as a Court of Impeachment, the accused officer, or their attorney they designate, shall plead guilty or not guilty to each article of impeachment. Should the accused officer or their attorney not be present, it shall be deemed that they plead not guilty to each article of impeachment.


                           2. On the third day as a Court of Impeachment, each side shall give their opening statements with the impeachment managers going first. In the event of a plea of guilty, this day shall be skipped.


                           3. On the fourth day as a Court of Impeachment, each Senator shall be permitted to ask two questions to each side of the case. This day shall be skipped if the accused officer or their attorney is not present or they pleaded guilty.


                           4. On the fifth day as a Court of Impeachment, each side shall call witnesses and provide evidence for their side along with statements necessary. All witnesses must take an oath before giving testimony. In the event of a plea of guilty, this day shall be skipped.


                           5. On the sixth day as a Court of Impeachment, each side shall give their closing statements with the impeachment managers going first. In the event of a plea of guilty, this day shall be skipped.
Subsection VI - Day Seven, Final Vote
                           1. On the seventh day as a Court of Impeachment, the Secretary of the Senate, or the Presiding Officer in their absence, shall call the roll of the Senate for each article of impeachment.


                           2. Senators shall vote on each article of impeachment by saying “Guilty” or “Not Guilty” and if seven-tenths of Senators present vote guilty on any article, the accused officer shall be removed from office.


                           3. The Court of Impeachment shall adjourn sine die upon the conclusion of all votes on articles of impeachment. The Senate then shall vote to bar the accused officer from future office if they were convicted on an article of impeachment.
RULE XII — SECRET SESSIONS.
                           1. On a motion made to close the doors of the Senate, on the discussion of any business which may, in the opinion of a Senator, require secrecy, the Presiding Officer shall direct the galleries to be cleared; and during the discussion of such motion, the doors shall remain closed. If resolved in the affirmative, the Senate shall remain in secret session until a motion to reopen the doors is moved and passed by a simple majority.


                           2. During a secret session, no Senator may speak of actions having taken within the Senate Chamber outside of said Chamber, nor shall any documents be released.


                           3. The Senate shall seal all debate, votes, and other records from secret sessions and not release them for 1 year following the end of the secret session, unless a majority votes, either during the secret session or after its conclusion, to amend the time for which records are sealed. The results of all votes shall be published immediately following the conclusion of the secret session, but no other information shall be released until otherwise permitted under this Rule.
RULE XIII — OTHER PROVISIONS.
                           1. The winner of a presidential election (hereafter referred to as the President-Elect) shall have the ability to submit appointments to the Senate after the proper declaration of the President-Elect under applicable law. The relevant committee may hold hearings before the President-Elect’s term has begun but consideration on the floor of the Senate at-large shall not take place until after the beginning of the President-Elect’s term as President of the United States.

                           2. Messages from the President of the United States or from the House of Representatives may be received at any stage of proceedings.


                              3. Messages shall be directed to the Presiding Officer of the Senate, who shall introduce such a message as soon as possible.


                              4. At the second or any subsequent session of a Congress, or any further Congress, the legislative business of the Senate which remained undetermined at the close of the next preceding session of that Congress shall be resumed and proceeded with in the same manner as if no adjournment of the Senate had taken place.


                              5. The Senate may, with a motion and majority vote, enter into Executive Sessions to consider treaties and nominations.


                              6. All Rules of the Senate shall be applied during Executive Sessions.


                              7. When not otherwise specified by the Senate, otherwise in common practice, absent a call for the regular order, or agreed to be temporarily suspended by a two-thirds (⅔) majority of the Senate, the Rules of the 116th Congress shall be in full force and effect on all procedural matters of the Senate. Should these rules or the rules of the 116th Congress be silent on a matter, the body will refer to Riddick’s Senate Procedure and the Senate Manual for the 116th Congress.
________________